# MD5: d5ca8635b51a27408c448277b5aee43c

practice
Doi:10.1145/2184319.2184335
systems were available 15 years ago.
Article development led by
HPC systems rely on fast (low-latency)
queue.acm.org
and efficient interconnection net-
works capable of providing both high
A good user experience depends on predictable
bandwidth and efficient messaging for
performance within the data-center network. fine-grained (for example, cache-line
size) communication. This zealous
attention to performance and low la-
By Dennis ABTs AnD BoB feLDeRMAn
tency migrated to financial enterprise
systems where a fraction of a micro-
A Guided Tour
second can make a difference in the
value of a transaction.
In recent years, Ethernet networks
have made significant inroads into
of Data-Center
bridging the performance and scal-
ability gap between capacity-oriented
clusters built using COTS (commod-
ity-off-the-shelf) components and
networking
purpose-built custom system architec-
tures. This is evident from the growth
of Ethernet as a cluster interconnect
on the Top500 list of most powerful
computers (top500.org). A decade
ago high-performance networks were
mostly custom and proprietary inter-
connects, and Ethernet was used by
only 2% of the Top500 systems. Today,
however, more than 42% of the most
powerful computers are using Gigabit
Ethernet, according to the November
2011 list of Top500 computers. A close
second place is InfiniBand, which
the Ma GIC of the cloud is that it is always on and is used by about 40% of the systems.
always available from anywhere. Users have come to These standards-based interconnects
combined with economies of scale
expect that services are there when they need them.
provide the genetic material of a mod-
A data center (or warehouse-scale computer) is the ern data-center network.
A modern data center,13,17,24 as
nexus from which all the services flow. It is often
shown in Figure 1, is home to tens of
housed in a nondescript warehouse-sized building thousands of hosts, each consisting of
bearing no indication of what lies inside. Amidst the one or more processors, memory, net-
work interface, and local high-speed
whirring fans and refrigerator-sized computer racks is
I/O (disk or flash). Compute resources
a tapestry of electrical cables and fiber optics weaving are packaged into racks and allocated
as clusters consisting of thousands of
everything together—the data-center network. This
hosts that are tightly connected with
article provides a “guided tour” through the principles a high-bandwidth network. While the
and central ideas surrounding the network at the heart network plays a central role in the over-
all system performance, it typically
of a data center—the modern-day loom that weaves
represents only 10%–15% of the clus-
the digital fabric of the Internet. ter cost. Be careful not to confuse cost
with value—the network is to a cluster
Large-scale parallel computers are grounded in HPC
computer what the central nervous sys-
(high-performance computing) where kilo-processor
tem is to the human body.
44 CoMMuniCATions of The ACM | june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6

figure 1. An example data center and warehouse-scale computer.
Each cluster is homogeneous in are often baked into the application Web applications such as search,
both the processor type and speed. The as programming trade-offs are made email, and document collaboration
thousands of hosts are orchestrated to to optimize code for the underlying are scheduled resources and run with-
exploit thread-level parallelism central system architecture. In this way, an ap- in a cluster.4,8 User-facing applications
to many Internet workloads as they di- plication organically grows within the have soft real-time latency guaran-
vide incoming requests into parallel confines of the system architecture. tees or SLAs that the application must
subtasks and weave together results The cluster-application usage mod- meet. In this model, an application has
from many subtasks across thousands el, either dedicated or shared among approximately tens of milliseconds
of cores. In general, in order for the re- multiple applications, has a significant to reply to the user’s request, which is
quest to complete, all parallel subtasks impact on SLAs (service-level agree- subdivided and dispatched to worker
must complete. As a result, the maxi- ments) and application performance. threads within the cluster. The worker
mum response time of any one subtask HPC applications typically use the sys- threads generate replies that are aggre-
will dictate the overall response time.25 tem in a dedicated fashion to avoid gated and returned to the user. Unfor-
Even in the presence of abundant contention from multiple applications tunately, if a portion of the workflow
thread-level parallelism, the commu- and reduce the resulting variation in does not execute in a timely manner,
nication overhead imposed by the net- application performance. On the other then it may exceed a specified timeout
work and protocol stack can ultimately hand, Web applications often rely on delay—as a result of network conges-
limit application performance as the services sourced from multiple clusters, tion, for example—and consequently
effects of Amdahl’s Law2 creep in. where each cluster may have several ap- some portion of the coalesced results
The high-level system architecture plications simultaneously running to will be unavailable and thus ignored.
and programming model shape both increase overall system utilization. As This needlessly wastes both CPU cycles
the programmer’s conceptual view a result, a data-center cluster may use and network bandwidth, and may ad-
and application usage. The latency and virtualization for both performance and versely impact the computed result.
bandwidth “cost” of local (DRAM) and fault isolation, and Web applications are To reduce the likelihood of conges-
remote (network) memory references programmed with this sharing in mind. tion, the network can be overprovi-
june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6 | CoMMuniCATions of The ACM 45

practice
sioned by providing ample bandwidth depends on the application. From the The transient load imbalance in-
for even antagonistic traffic patterns. purview of the cluster, Internet traffic duced by elephant flows can adversely
Overprovisioning within large-scale becomes highly aggregated, and as a affect any innocent-bystander flows
networks is prohibitively expensive. Al- result the mean of traffic flows says very that are patiently waiting for a heavily
ternatively, implementing QoS (quality little because aggregated traffic exhib- utilized link common to both routes.
of service) policies to segregate traffic its a high degree of variability and is For example, an elephant flow from A
into distinct classes and provide per- non-Gaussian.16 to B might share a common link with
formance isolation and high-level traf- As a result, a network that is only a flow from C to D. Any long-lived con-
fic engineering is a step toward ensur- 10% utilized can see lots of packet dis- tention for the shared link increases
ing application-level SLAs are satisfied. cards when running a Web search. To the likelihood of discarding a packet
Most QoS implementations are imple- understand individual flow character- from the C-to-D flow. Any packet dis-
mented by switch and NIC (network istics better, applications are instru- cards will result in an unacknowl-
interface controller) hardware where mented to “sample” messages and de- edged packet at the sender’s trans-
traffic is segregated based on priority rive a distribution of traffic flows; this port layer and be retransmitted when
explicitly marked by routers and hosts knowledge allows you to infer a taxono- the timeout period expires. Since the
or implicitly steered using port ranges. my of network traffic and classify indi- timeout period is generally one or two
The goal is the same: a high-perfor- vidual flows. The most common classi- orders of magnitude more than the
mance network that provides predict- fication is bimodal, using the so-called network’s round-trip time, this addi-
able latency and bandwidth character- “elephant” and “mice” classes. tional latency22 is a significant source
istics across varying traffic patterns. Elephant flows have a large number of performance variation.3
of packets and are generally long lived; Today’s typical multitiered data-
Data-Center Traffic they exhibit “bursty” behavior with a center network23 has a significant
Traffic within a data-center network is large number of packets injected in amount of oversubscription, where the
often measured and characterized ac- the network over a short time. Traf- hosts attached to the rack switch (that
cording to flows, which are sequences fic within a flow is generally ordered, is, first tier) have significantly more—
of packets from a source to destination which means elephant flows can cre- say an order of magnitude more—pro-
host. When referring to Internet proto- ate a set of “hotspot” links that can visioned bandwidth between one an-
cols, a flow is further refined to include lead to tree saturation or discarded other than they do with hosts in other
a specific source and destination port packets in networks that use lossy racks. This rack affinity is necessary
number and transport type—UDP or flow control. The performance impact to reduce network cost and improve
TCP, for example. Traffic is asymmet- from elephant flows can be significant. utilization. The traffic intensity emit-
ric with client-to-server requests being Despite the relatively low number of ted by each host fluctuates over time,
abundant but generally small. Server- flows—say less than 1%—they can ac- and the transient load imbalance that
to-client responses, however, tend to count for more than half the data vol- results from this varying load can cre-
be larger flows; of course, this, too, ume on the network. ate contention and ultimately result
in discarded packets for flow control.
Traffic between clusters is typically
less time critical and as a result can
be staged and scheduled. Inter-cluster
traffic is less orchestrated and consists
of much larger payloads, whereas in-
tra-cluster traffic is often fine-grained
with bursty behavior. At the next level,
between data centers, bandwidth is of-
ten very expensive over vast distances
with highly regulated traffic streams
and patterns so that expensive links
are highly utilized. When congestion
occurs the most important traffic gets
access to the links. Understanding the
granularity and distribution of net-
work flows is essential to capacity plan-
ning and traffic engineering.
Data-Center network Architecture
The network topology describes pre-
cisely how switches and hosts are in-
terconnected. This is commonly rep-
resented as a graph in which vertices
represent switches or hosts, and links
46 CoMMuniCATions of The ACM | june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6


[EXTRACTED TABLES]:


| figure 2. A conventional tree-like data-center network topology. |
| --- |
| Internet BR BR Data-Center Border Router CR CR ... CR Cluster Router Aggregation AS AS Switches L2S L2S L2S ... L2S ToR ToR ToR Top of Rack ToR Switches ... H HH H H HH H H HH H H HH H cluster H H H H H H H H |

practice
are the edges that connect them. The plugged in and learns its identity and
topology is central to both the perfor- exchanges route information with its
mance and cost of the network. The peers; however, the capacity of the
topology affects a number of design packet-forwarding tables is limited to,
trade-offs, including performance, The high-level say, 64K entries. Further, each layer 2
system packaging, path diversity, and switch will participate in an STP (span-
system architecture
redundancy, which, in turn, affect the ning tree protocol) or use the TRILL
network’s resilience to faults, average and programming (transparent interconnect of lots of
and maximum cable length, and, of links) link-state protocol to exchange
course, cost.12 The Cisco Data Center In- model shape both routing information and avoid tran-
frastructure 3.0 Design Guide6 describes sient routing loops that may arise while
the programmer’s
common practices based on a tree-like the link state is exchanged among
topology15 resembling early telephony conceptual view peers. Neither layer 2 nor layer 3 rout-
networks proposed by Charles Clos,7 ing is perfectly suited to data-center
and application
with bandwidth aggregation at differ- networks, so to overcome these limi-
ent levels of the network. usage. tations many new routing algorithms
A fat-tree or folded-Clos topology, have been proposed (for example, Port-
similar to that shown in Figure 2, has Land1,18 and VL211).
an aggregate bandwidth that grows in Routing. The routing algorithm de-
proportion to the number of host ports termines the path a packet traverses
in the system. A scalable network is through the network. A packet’s route,
one in which increasing the number or path, through the network can be
of ports in the network should linearly asserted when the message is cre-
increase the delivered bisection band- ated, called source routing, or may be
width. Scalability and reliability are asserted hop by hop in a distributed
inseparable since growing to large sys- manner as a packet visits intermediate
tem size requires a robust network. switches. Source routing requires that
Network addressing. A host’s ad- every endpoint know the prescribed
dress is how endpoints are identified path to reach all other endpoints, and
in the network. Endpoints are distin- each source-routed packet carries the
guished from intermediate switch- full information to determine the set of
ing elements traversed en route since port/link traversals from source to des-
messages are created by and delivered tination endpoint. As a result of this
to an endpoint. In the simplest terms, overhead and inflexible fault handling,
the address can be thought of as the source-routed packets are generally
numerical equivalent of a host name used only for topology discovery and
similar to that reported by the Unix network initialization, or during fault
hostname command. recovery when the state of a switch is
An address is unique and must be unknown. A more flexible method of
represented in a canonical form that routing uses distributed lookup tables
can be used by the routing function to at each switch, as shown in Figure 3.
determine where to route a packet. The For example, consider a typical Eth-
switch inspects the packet header cor- ernet switch. When a packet arrives at
responding to the layer in which rout- a switch input port, it uses fields from
ing is performed—for example, IP ad- the packet header to index into a look-
dress from layer 3 or Ethernet address up table and determine the next hop,
from layer 2. Switching over Ethernet or egress port, from the current switch.
involves ARP (address resolution pro- A good topology will have abundant
tocol) and RARP (reverse address reso- path diversity in which multiple pos-
lution protocol) that broadcast mes- sible egress ports may exist, with each
sages on the layer 2 network to update one leading to a distinct path. Path di-
local caches mapping layer 2 to layer versity in the topology may yield ECMP
3 addresses and vice versa. Routing at (equal-cost multipath) routing; in that
layer 3 requires each switch to main- case the routing algorithm attempts to
tain a subnet mask and assign IP ad- load-balance the traffic flowing across
dresses statically or disseminate host the links by spreading traffic uniformly.
addresses using DHCP (dynamic host To accomplish this uniform spreading,
configuration protocol), for example. the routing function in the switch will
The layer 2 routing tables are auto- hash several fields of the packet header
matically populated when a switch is to produce a deterministic egress port.
june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6 | CoMMuniCATions of The ACM 47

practice
In the event of a link or switch failure, meters—electrical signaling is cost-ef- can become unstable, as illustrated by
the routing algorithm will take advan- fective. Longer links, however, require the dotted line in the figure, when the
tage of path diversity in the network to fiber optics to communicate over the offered load exceeds the saturation
find another path. longer distances. Signal propagation point, α. The saturation point is the of-
A path through the network is said in electrical signaling (5 nanoseconds fered load beyond which the network is
to be minimal if no shorter (that is, per meter) is faster than it is in fiber (6 said to be congested. In response to this
fewer hops) path exists; of course, nanoseconds per meter). congestion, packets may be discarded
there may be multiple minimal paths. Propagation delay through elec- to avoid overflowing an input buffer.
A fat-tree topology,15 for example, has trical cables occurs at sublumenal This lossy flow control is commonplace
multiple minimal paths between any speeds because of a frequency-de- in Ethernet networks.
two hosts, but a butterfly topology9 has pendent component at the surface of Discarding packets, while concep-
only a single minimal path between the conductor, or “skin effect,” in the tually simple and easy to implement,
any two hosts. Sometimes selecting a cable. This limits the signal velocity puts an onus on transport-level mech-
non-minimal path is advantageous— to about three-quarters the speed of anisms to detect and retransmit lost
for example, to avoid congestion or light in a vacuum. Signal propagation packets. Note, packets that are lost or
to route around a fault. The length of in optical fibers is even slower because corrupted during transmission are
a non-minimal path can range from of dielectric waveguides used to al- handled by the same transport-level
min+1 up to the length of a Hamilto- ter the refractive index profile so that reliable delivery protocol. When the of-
nian path visiting each switch exactly higher-velocity components of the sig- fered load is low (less than α), packet
once. In general, the routing algo- nal (such as shorter wavelengths) will loss as a result of corruption is rare,
rithm might consider non-minimal travel longer distances and arrive at so paying the relatively large penalty
paths of a length that is one more than the same time as lower-velocity com- for transport-level retransmission is
a minimal path, since considering all ponents, limiting the signal velocity to generally tolerable. Increased traffic
non-minimal paths would be prohibi- about two-thirds the speed of light in (greater than α) and adversarial traf-
tively expensive. a vacuum. Optical signaling must also fic patterns will cause packet discards
account for the time necessary to per- after the switch’s input queue is ex-
network Performance form electrical-to-optical signal con- hausted. The resulting retransmission
Here, we discuss the etiquette for version, and vice versa. will only further exacerbate an already
sharing the network resources—spe- The average cable length, L, is large- congested network, yielding an unsta-
cifically, the physical links and buf- ly determined by the topology and the ble network that performs poorly, as
fer spaces are resources that require physical placement of system racks shown by the dotted line in Figure 4.
flow control to share them efficiently. within the data center. The packet’s se- Alternatively, with lossless flow control,
Flow control is carried out at different rialization latency, t , is the time nec- when congestion arises packets may be
s
levels of the network stack: data-link, essary to squeeze the packet onto a nar- blocked or held at the source until re-
network, transport layer, and possibly row serial channel and is determined sources are available.
within the application itself for ex- by the bit rate of the channel. For ex- A global congestion control mecha-
plicit coordination of resources. Flow ample, a 1,500-byte Ethernet packet nism prevents the network from op-
control that occurs at lower levels of (frame) requires more than 12µs (ig- erating in the post-saturation region.
the communication stack is transpar- noring any interframe gap time) to be Most networks use end-to-end flow
ent to applications. squeezed onto a 1Gb/s link. With store- control, such as TCP,5 which uses a win-
Flow control. Network-level flow and-forward flow control, as its name dowing mechanism between pairs of
control dictates how the input buf- suggests, a packet is buffered at each source and sink in an attempt to match
fers at each switch or NIC are man- hop before the switch does anything the source’s injection rate with the
aged: store-and-forward, virtual cut- with it: sink’s acceptance rate. TCP, however,
through,14 or wormhole,19 for example. is designed for reliable packet delivery,
To understand the performance impli- T = H(t + Lt + t ) not necessarily timely packet delivery,
sf r p s
cations of flow control better, you must and as a result, requires tuning (TCP
first understand the total delay, T, a As a result, the serialization delay, congestion-control algorithms will au-
packet incurs: t , is incurred at each hop, instead of to-tune to find the right rate) to balance
s
just at the destination endpoint as is performance and avoid unnecessary
T = H(t + Lt ) + t the case with virtual cut-through and packet duplication from eagerly re-
r p s
wormhole flow control. This can po- transmitting packets under heavy load.
H is the number of hops the packet tentially add on the order of 100µs to Improving the network stack. Sever-
takes through the network; t is the the round-trip network delay in a data- al decades ago the network designers of
r
fall-through latency of the switch, center network. early workstations made trade-offs that
measured from the time the first flit A stable network monotonically led to a single TCP/IP/Ethernet network
(flow-control unit) arrives to when the delivers messages as shown by a char- stack, whether communicating over a
first flit exits; and t is the propagation acteristic throughput-load curve in few meters or a few kilometers. As pro-
p
delay through average cable length Figure 4. In the absence of end-to-end cessor speed and density improved, the
L. For short links—say, fewer than 10 flow control, however, the network cost of network communication grew
48 CoMMuniCATions of The ACM | june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6

practice
relative to processor cycles, exposing can sometimes be done at the “border” ware—both applications and, to a less-
the network stack as a critical latency of the Internet where commonly re- er extent, the operating system. The
bottleneck.22 This is, in part, the result quested pages are cached and serviced fluid-like software demands of Web
of a user-kernel context switch in the by edge servers, while inward computa- applications often consume the cluster
TCP/IP/Ethernet stack—and possibly tion is generally carried out by a cluster resources that contain them, making
additional work to copy the message in a data center with tightly coupled, flexibility a top priority in such a fluid
from the application buffer into the orchestrated communication. User system. For example, adding 10% ad-
kernel buffer and back again at the re- demand is diurnal for a geographic ditional storage capacity should mean
ceiver. A two-pronged hardware/soft- region; thus, multiple data centers adding no more than 10% more serv-
ware approach tackled this latency pen- are positioned around the globe to ers to the cluster. This linear growth
alty: OS bypass, and zero copy, both of accommodate the varying demand. function is critical to the scalability of
which are aimed at eliminating the us- When possible, demand may be spread the system—adding fractionally more
er-kernel switch for every message and across nearby data centers to load-bal- servers results in a commensurate
avoiding a redundant memory copy by ance the traffic. growth in the overall cluster capac-
allowing the network transport to grab The sheer enormity of this comput- ity. Another aspect of this flexibility is
the message payload directly from the ing infrastructure makes nimble de- the granularity of resource additions,
user application buffers. ployment very challenging. Each clus- which is often tied to the cluster pack-
To ameliorate the performance ter is built up rack by rack and tested aging constraints. For example, adding
impact of a user/kernel switch, OS by- as units (rack, top-of-rack switch, another rack to a cluster, with, say, 100
pass can be used to deposit a message among others), as well as in its entirety new servers, is more manageable than
directly into a user-application buffer. with production-level workloads and adding a whole row, with tens of racks,
The application participates in the traffic intensity. on the data-center floor.
messaging protocol by spin-waiting The cluster ecosystem undergoes Even a modest-sized cluster will
on a doorbell memory location. Upon organic growth over its life span, pro- have several kilometers of fiber-optic
arrival, the NIC deposits the message pelled by the rapid evolution of soft- cable acting as a vast highway inter-
contents in the user-application buf-
fer, and then “rings” the doorbell to
indicate message arrival by writing the
offset into the buffer where the new
message can be found. When the user
thread detects the updated value, the
incoming message is processed entire-
ly from user space.
Zero-copy message-passing proto-
cols avoid this additional memory copy
from user to kernel space, and vice ver-
sa at the recipient. An interrupt signals
the arrival of a message, and an inter-
rupt handler services the new message
and returns control to the user applica-
tion. The interrupt latency—the time
from when the interrupt is raised until
control is handed to the interrupt han-
dler—can be significant, especially if
interrupt coalescing is used to amor-
tize the latency penalty across multiple
interrupts. Unfortunately, while in-
terrupt coalescing improves message
efficiency (that is, increased effective
bandwidth), it does so at the cost of
both increased message latency and la-
tency variance.
scalable, Manageable, And flexible
In general, cloud computing requires
two types of services: user-facing com-
putation (for example, serving Web
pages) and inward computation (for
example, indexing, search, and map/
reduce). Outward-facing functionality
june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6 | CoMMuniCATions of The ACM 49


[EXTRACTED TABLES]:


| figure 3. example packet routing through a switch chip. |
| --- |
| dest. address Routing egress Lookup port Table incoming crossbar packet footer payload header F H input output output port ports ports (to next hop) |

| F |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | H |
| --- | --- |

| figure 4. Throughput (accepted bandwidth) as load varies. |
| --- |
| )s/stib( tuphguorht post-saturation instability α offered load (bits/s) |

practice
connecting racks of servers organized Bad things happen to good soft-
as multiple rows on the data-center ware. Web applications must be de-
floor. The data-center network topol- signed to be fault aware and, to the ex-
ogy and resulting cable complexity tent possible, resilient in the presence
is “baked in” and remains a rigid fix- The data-center of a variety of failure scenarios.10 The
ture of the cluster. Managing cable network is responsible for the major-
network serves
complexity is nontrivial, which is im- ity of the unavailability budget for a
mediately evident from the intricately as a “central modern cluster. Whether it is a rogue
woven tapestry of fiber-optic cabling gamma ray causing a soft error in
laced throughout the data center. It nervous system” memory or an inattentive worker acci-
is not uncommon to run additional dentally unearthing a fiber-optic line,
for information
fiber for redundancy, in the event of a the operating system and underlying
cable failure in a “bundle” of fiber or exchange between hardware substrate work in concert to
for planned bandwidth growth. Fiber foster a robust ecosystem for Web ap-
cooperating tasks.
cables are carefully measured to allow plications.
some slack and to satisfy the cable’s The data-center network serves as
bend radius, and they are meticulously a “central nervous system” for infor-
labeled to make troubleshooting less mation exchange between cooperat-
of a needle-in-a-haystack exercise. ing tasks. The network’s functionality
is commonly divided into control and
Reliable and Available data planes. The control plane pro-
Abstraction is the Archimedes lever vides an ancillary network juxtaposed
that lifts many disciplines within com- with the data network and tasked with
puter science and is used extensively “command and control” for the pri-
in both computer system design and mary data plane. The control plane is
software engineering. Like an array an autonomic system for configura-
of nested Russian dolls, the network- tion, fault detection and repair, and
programming model provides abstrac- monitoring of the data plane. The
tion between successive layers of the control plane is typically implement-
networking stack, enabling platform- ed as an embedded system within
independent access to both data and each switch component and is tasked
system management. One such ex- with fault detection, notification, and
ample of this type of abstraction is repair when possible.
the protocol buffer,21 which provides a For example, when a network link
structured message-passing interface fails or has an uncharacteristically
for Web applications written in C++, high number of transmission errors,
Java, or Python. the control plane will reroute the net-
Perhaps the most common abstrac- work to avoid the faulty link. This
tion used in networking is the notion entails recomputing the routes ac-
of a communication channel as a virtual cording to the routing algorithm and
resource connecting two hosts. The emplacing new entries in the rout-
TCP communication model provides ing tables of the affected switches.
this abstraction to the programmer in Of course, the effects of this patch-
the form of a file descriptor, for exam- work are not instantaneous. Once
ple, where reads and writes performed the routing algorithm computes new
on the socket result in the correspond- routes, taking into consideration the
ing network transactions, which are newfound faulty links, it must dis-
hidden from the user application. In seminate the routes to the affected
much the same way, the InfiniBand QP switches. The time needed for this in-
(queue-pair) verb model provides an formation exchange is referred to as
abstraction for the underlying send/ convergence time, and a primary goal
receive hardware queues in the NIC. of the routing protocol is to ensure it
Besides providing a more intuitive pro- is optimally confined to a small epoch.
gramming interface, abstraction also Fault recovery is a very complicated
serves as a protective sheath around subject and confounds all but the sim-
software when faults arise, depositing plest of data-center networks. Among
layers of software sediment to insu- the complicating factors are marginal
late it from critical faults (for example, links that cause “flapping” by transi-
memory corruption or, worse, host tioning between active and inactive
power-supply failure). (that is, up and down), repeatedly creat-
50 CoMMuniCATions of The ACM | june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6

practice
ing a deluge of error notifications and A good user experience relies on pre- Transactions on Computers 34, 10 (1985), 892–901.
16. Mori, t., uchida, M., kawahara, r., Pan, J., and
resulting route recomputation based dictable performance, with the data-
Goto, s. Identifying elephant flows through
on fluctuating and inconsistent link center network delivering predictable periodically sampled packets. In Proceedings of
the 4th ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet
status. Some link-layer protocols allow latency and bandwidth characteristics
Measurement (2004); 115–120; http://doi.acm.
the link speed to be adjusted down- across varying traffic patterns. With org/10.1145/1028788.1028803.
17. Mudigonda, J., yalagandula, P., Mogul, J., stiekes, b.,
ward in hopes of improving the link single-thread performance plateauing,
Pouffary, y. netlord: a scalable multi-tenant network
quality. Of course, lowering the link microprocessors are providing more architecture for virtualized datacenters. SIGCOMM
Computer Communication Review 41, 4 (2011), 62-73;
speed results in a reduced bandwidth cores to keep pace with the relentless http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2043164.2018444.
link, which in turn may limit the overall march of Moore’s Law. As a result, ap- 18. Mysore, r.n., Pamboris, a., Farrington, n., Huang,
n., Miri, P., radhakrishnan, s., subramanya, V.,
bandwidth of the network or at the very plications are looking for increasing Vahdat, a. Portland: a scalable fault-tolerant layer
least will create load imbalance as a re- thread-level parallelism and scaling 2 data center network fabric. SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review 39, 4 (2009), 39–50; http://doi.
sult of increased contention across the to a large core count with a commen- acm.org/10.1145/1594977.1592575.
slow link. Because of these complicat- surate increase in communication 19. ni, l. M., Mckinley, P. k. a survey of wormhole routing
techniques in direct networks. Computer 26, 2 (1993),
ing factors, it is often better to logically among cores. This trend is motivating 62–76; http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=
excise the faulty link from the routing communication-centric cluster comput- &arnumber=191995&isnumber=4947.
20. ousterhout, J., agrawal, P. erickson, d., kozyrakis,
algorithm until the physical link can be ing with tens of thousands of cores in C., leverich, J., Mazières, d., Mitra, s., narayanan, a.,
Parulkar, G., rosenblum, M., rumble, s.M., stratmann,
replaced and validated. unison, reminiscent of a flock darting
e. and stutsman, r. the case for raMClouds:
seamlessly amidst the clouds. scalable high-performance storage entirely in draM.
Conclusion SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 43, 4 (2010),
92–105; http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1713254.171327.
The data-center network is gener- 21. Protocol buffers; http://code.google.com/apis/
References
protocolbuffers/.
ally regarded as a critical design ele- 1. al-Fares, M., loukissas, a. and Vahdat, a. a scalable,
22. rumble, s.M., ongaro, d., stutsman, r., rosenblum,
commodity data-center network architecture. In
ment in the system architecture and M., and ousterhout, J.k. It’s time for low latency. In
Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2008 Conference
Proceedings of the 13th Usenix Conference on Hot
the skeletal structure upon which on Data Communication (2008), 63–74; http://doi.acm. Topics in Operating Systems (2011).
org/10.1145/1402958.1402967.
processor, memory, and I/O devices 23. Vahdat, a., al-Fares, M., Farrington, n., Mysore, r.n.,
2. amdahl’s law; http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/amdahl’s_
Porter, G., and radhakrishnan, s. scale-out networking
are dynamically shared. The evolu- law. in the data center. IEEE Micro 30, 4 (2010), 29–41;
3. ballani, H., Costa, P., karagiannis, t. and rowstron,
tion from 1G to 10G Ethernet and the a. towards predictable data-center networks. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MM.2010.72.
24. Vahdat, a., liu, H., zhao, X. and Johnson, C. the
emerging 40G Ethernet has exposed In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2011 emerging optical data center. Presented at the Optical
Conference (2011), 242–253; http://doi.acm.
performance bottlenecks in the com- org/10.1145/2018436.2018465. Fiber Communication Conference. osa technical
digest (2011); http://www.opticsinfobase.org/abstract.
munication stack that require bet- 4. barroso, l.a., dean, J. and Holzle, u. Web search cfm?urI=oFC-2011-otuH2.
for a planet: the Google cluster architecture. IEEE
ter hardware-software coordination Micro 23, 2 (2003), 22–28; http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/ 25. Wilson, C., ballani, H., karagiannis, t., and rowtron,
a. better never than late: Meeting deadlines in
for efficient communication. Other stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1196112&isnumb datacenter networks. In Proceedings of the ACM
er=26907.
SIGCOMM 2011 Conference (2011), 50–61; http://doi.
approaches by Solarflare, Myricom, 5. Cerf, V. and Icahn r.e. a protocol for packet
acm.org/10.1145/2018436.2018443.
and InfiniBand, among others, have network intercommunication. SIGCOMM Computer
Communication Review 35, 2 (2005), 71–82; http://doi.
sought to reshape the conventional acm.org/10.1145/1064413.1064423.
6. Cisco Data Center Infrastructure 3.0 Design Guide.
sockets programming model with data Center design—IP network Infrastructure; Related articles
more efficient abstractions. Internet http://www.cisco.com/en/us/docs/solutions/ on queue.acm.org
enterprise/data_Center/dC_3_0/dC-3_0_IPInfra.
sockets, however, remain the domi- html. Enterprise Grid Computing
nant programming interface for data- 7. Clos, C. a study of non-blocking switching networks. The Paul Strong
Bell System Technical Journal 32, 2 (1953), 406–424.
center networks. http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=1080877
8. Fitzpatrick, b. distributed caching with Memcached.
Network performance and reliabil- Linux Journal 2004; http://www.linuxjournal.com/ Cooling the Data Center
article/7451.
ity are key design goals, but they are 9. dally, W. and towles, b. Principles and Practices Andy Woods
tempered by cost and serviceability of Interconnection Networks. Morgan kaufmann http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=1737963
Publishers, san Francisco, Ca, 2003.
constraints. Deploying a large cluster 10. Gill, P., Jain, n. and nagappan, n. understanding Improving Performance on the Internet
computer is done incrementally and network failures in data centers: measurement, Tom Leighton
analysis, and implications. In Proceedings of the ACM http://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=1466449
is often limited by the power capac- SIGCOMM 2011 Conference (2011), 350–361; http://
ity of the building, with power being doi.acm.org/10.1145/2018436.2018477.
11. Greenberg, a., Hamilton, J. r., Jain, n., kandula, s.,
distributed across the cluster network kim, C., lahiri, P., Maltz, d. a., Patel, P. and sengupta, Dennis Abts is a member of the technical staff at Google,
so that a power failure impacts only a s P . r o V c l e 2 e : d a in s g c s a o la f b th le e a A n C d M fl e S x I i G bl C e O d M at M a c 2 e 0 n 0 t 9 e r C n o e n t f w er o e r n k c . e I n w ge h n e e r r e a h ti e o n is l a in r v g o e l - v s e c d a l in e t c h lu e s a t r e c r h s. i t P e r c i t o u r r t e o a j n o d in i d n e g s G ig o n o o g f l e n , e xt-
small fraction—say, less than 10%—of on Data Communication (2009): 51–62; http://doi.acm. abts was a senior principal engineer and system architect
org/10.1145/1592568.1592576. at Cray Inc. He has numerous technical publications and
the hosts in the cluster. When hard- 12. Greenberg, a., Hamilton, J., Maltz, d.a. and Patel, P. patents in areas of interconnection networks, data-center
ware fails, as is to be expected, the the cost of a cloud: research problems in data center networking, cache-coherence protocols, high-bandwidth
networks. SIGCOMM Computer Communications memory systems, and supercomputing.
operating system running on the host
Review 39, 1 (2008), 68–73; http://doi.acm.
Bob Felderman spent time at both Princeton and uCla
coordinates with a higher-level hyper- org/10.1145/1496091.1496103.
before starting a short stint at Information sciences
13. Hoelzle, u. and barroso, l. a. The Datacenter
visor or cluster operating system to Institute. He then helped found Myricom, which became a
as a Computer: An Introduction to the Design of
leader in cluster-computing networking technology. after
allow failures to be replaced in situ Warehouse-Scale Machines (1st ed.). Morgan &
seven years there, he moved to Packet design where he
Claypool Publishers, 2009.
without draining traffic in the clus- 14. kermani, P. and kleinrock, l. Virtual cut-through: applied high-performance computing ideas to the IP and
ethernet space. He later was a founder of Precision I/o.
ter. Scalable Web applications are de- a new computer communication switching all of that experience eventually led him to Google where
technique, Computer Networks 3, 4 (1976), 267–286;
signed to expect occasional hardware http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/ he is a principal engineer working on issues in data-center
networking and general platforms system architecture.
failures, and the resulting software is pii/0376507579900321.
15. leiserson, C.e. Fat-trees: universal networks
by necessity resilient. for hardware-efficient supercomputing. IEEE © 2012 aCM 0001-0782/12/06 $10.00
june 2012 | vol. 55 | no. 6 | CoMMuniCATions of The ACM 51