At-A-Glance

Cisco NX-OS - Networking Software

Network Software Overview Cisco NX-OS resiliency includes several features. Cisco With Cisco NX-OS, switches can be virtualized in In-Service Software Upgrade (ISSU) provides problem many logical devices, each operating independently. The foundation of the data center network is the fixes, feature enhancements, and even full OS upgrades Device partitioning is particularly useful in multi-tenant network software that runs the switches in the network. without interrupting operation of the device. Per- environments and in environments in which strict Customers are facing significant challenges, with process modularity allows customers to restart individual separation is necessary due to regulatory concerns. exponentially increasing amounts of data, growing processes or update individual processes without Cisco NX-OS provides VLANs and VSANs and also complexity, and new operating models such as full disrupting the other services on the device. Cisco NX- supports newer technologies such as VXLAN, helping virtualization and public and private cloud. Network OS also allows the separation of the control plane from enable network segregation. The technologies software is critical to helping ensure efficiency and the data plane; data-plane events cannot block the flow incorporated into Cisco NX-OS provide tight investment protection in the data center. of control commands, helping ensure uptime. integration between the network and virtualized server environments, enabling simplified management and

Cisco NX-OS Software

Efficiency provisioning of data center resources. Cisco® NX-OS Software is the network software for Cisco NX-OS includes a number of traditional and Cisco MDS 9000 Family and Cisco Nexus® Family data Extensibility advanced features to ease implementation and ongoing center switching products. Cisco NX-OS is designed operations. Monitoring tools, analyzers, and clustering Performance and feature scalability is an integral part to meet the needs of a variety of customers, including technologies are integrated into Cisco NX-OS. These of Cisco NX-OS. Cisco NX-OS is designed to support midmarket, enterprise, and service providers and features provide a single point of management that current and future multiprocessor hardware platforms, a range of specific industries. Cisco NX-OS allows simplifies operations and improves efficiency. helping ensure scalability well into the future. With customers to create a stable and standard switching its modular building-block approach, Cisco NX-OS environment in the data center for the LAN and SAN. Having a single networking software platform that spans allows quick and easy integration of new technology Cisco NX-OS is based on a secure, stable, and standard all the major components of the data center network innovations. Customers can be assured of strong Linux core, providing a modular and sustainable base creates a predictable, consistent environment that investment protection because of the modular flexibility for the long term. Built to unify and simplify the data makes it easier to configure the network, diagnose of the Cisco NX-OS design. This design approach center, Cisco NX-OS provides the networking software problems, and implement solutions. also helps ensure simplified portability for consistent foundation for the Cisco Unified Data Center. deployment across multiple platforms.

Cisco Data Center Network Manager (DCNM) is a

Delivering the critical features for next-generation centralized manager that can handle all Cisco NX-OS True Modern Network Software networks, Cisco NX-OS is designed around four main devices, allowing centralization of all the monitoring and attributes: analysis performed at the device level and providing Cisco NX-OS is true modern network software that spans the data center, bringing with it the consistency, a high level of overall control. Furthermore, Cisco NX- Resilience flexibility, and reliability that organizations need to OS offers the same industry-standard command-line operate the data centers of today and tomorrow. Cisco NX-OS is built from the foundation to deliver environment that was pioneered in Cisco IOS® Software, continuous, predictable, and highly resilient operations making the transition from Cisco IOS Software to Cisco

For More Information

for the most demanding network environments. With NX-OS Software easy. fine-grained process modularity, automatic fault isolation http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/ps9494/ and containment, and tightly integrated hardware Virtualization Products_Sub_Category_Home.html resiliency features, Cisco NX-OS delivers a highly Cisco NX-OS is designed to deliver switch-level reliable operating system for operation continuity. virtualization and enable server virtualization. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R) C45-712456-00 07/12
