Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric

Architecture Guide

Published

2026-02-24

ii Juniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation Way Sunnyvale, California 94089

USA

408-745-2000 www.juniper.net Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.

Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture Guide

Copyright © 2026 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. The information in this document is current as of the date on the title page.

YEAR 2000 NOTICE

Juniper Networks hardware and software products are Year 2000 compliant. Junos OS has no known time-related limitations through the year 2038. However, the NTP application is known to have some difficulty in the year 2036.

END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

The Juniper Networks product that is the subject of this technical documentation consists of (or is intended for use with) Juniper Networks software. Use of such software is subject to the terms and conditions of the End User License Agreement ("EULA") posted at https://support.juniper.net/support/eula/. By downloading, installing or using such software, you agree to the terms and conditions of that EULA.

iii Table of Contents

About This Guide | xi

1 Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture—Overview

About This Architecture Guide | 2

Terminology | 2

Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture | 6

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

2 Data Center Fabric Reference Design—Tested Implementation

Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49

IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81

Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices | 84 Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link | 89 Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network | 90

Enabling Load Balancing | 93

Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links in Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces | 94

IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History | 96

Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97 BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with EVPN-VXLAN Implementation | 104 IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP | 114 Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay | 117 Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering | 120 Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity | 122 BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center | 123 Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142

iv Configuring a Bridged Overlay | 144 Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 145 Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 147 Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 148 Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 153

Bridged Overlay — Release History | 171

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 172 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance | 173 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device | 176 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device | 180 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device | 186 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device | 190 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances | 205 Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine Device | 207 Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine Device | 211 Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device | 218 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device | 222

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 229

Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 229 Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN Multihoming with VLAN Trunking | 230

Enabling Storm Control | 234

Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History | 235

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236 Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 239 Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 241 Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 241

v Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 250 Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices | 257 Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device | 264 Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267 Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 269 Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 270 Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 272 Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 274

Routed Overlay — Release History | 280

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 281 Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device | 282 Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End System | 283

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History | 284

Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation | 285 How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network | 288 How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network | 292 How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the Underlay and Overlay Networks | 294 How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 296 How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 302 Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation | 315

Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture | 318

Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 320 Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 328 Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches | 334 Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster and ToR Devices | 342

vi Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Configuration | 348 EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation | 353 Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding Instance | 353 Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist | 355 Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence | 358 EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature — Release History | 360 Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes | 361 Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 361

Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces | 364

Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine Devices and the Backbone Devices | 366 Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device | 370 Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices | 375

Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 377

Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating | 381

DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History | 386

Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN | 387

Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 389

Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 390

Data Center Interconnect—Release History | 391

Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 391 Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN | 397 Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN | 401 Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension | 402 Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN | 407 Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch Instance | 409 Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 413 Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 415 VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance | 419

vii Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-VRF | 421 Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance | 424 Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching | 428

Verify Host Route Support | 429

EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching | 430 Inter-DC Underlay and Overlay | 432 Intra-DC Underlay and Overlay | 435 Layer 2 Symmetric IRB | 436 Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 440 Type 5 Stitching | 450 Interconnect Multihoming for DCI Gateway Peers | 452 Configurations for DC2-GW21 and DC2-Leaf21 | 453

Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching Through Interconnected EVPN-MPLS

WAN Gateways | 477 Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q | 486 Configuring the Aggregators | 488 Configuring the TOR Devices | 492 Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators | 496 Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices | 499 Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels | 501 Service Chaining Design and Implementation | 508 Service Chaining | 508

Service Chaining Design | 508

Configuring Service Chaining | 509

Verifying Service Chaining | 512

Service Chaining with Multicast | 515 Service Chaining with Multicast Design | 515

Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast | 516

```text
viii
Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast | 521
Service Chaining— Release History | 523
Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation | 523
Configuring IGMP Snooping | 524
Verifying IGMP Snooping | 525
Configuring PIM | 527
Verifying PIM | 528
Multicast — Feature Summary | 531
Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation | 533
Configuring the Server Leaf | 535
Configuring the Spine | 535
Configuring the Border Leaf | 537
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf | 540
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine | 542
Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design— Feature Summary | 545
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed
Bridging Overlays | 546
Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP) | 554
Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance | 559
Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers | 564
Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
Multihoming | 566
Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices | 570
Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway
Role, and PIM Options | 571
Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router | 575
Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices | 577
Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation | 581
```

```text
ix
Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) Implementation | 613
Regular OISM and Enhanced OISM Differences | 614
Enhanced OISM Use Cases Overview | 615
Configure and Verify the EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering | 618
Configure the EVPN MAC-VRF Instance and Enable Enhanced OISM | 624
Configure Platform-specific Parameters | 625
Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming Peer) with IGMPv3—
SSM | 626
Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and
IGMPv3—SSM | 629
Verify Use Case#1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3
—SSM | 642
Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 675
Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 678
Verify Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 686
Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 693
Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 696
Verify Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 706
Configure VMTO | 723
DHCP Relay Design and Implementation | 724
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Same Leaf
Device | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Different Leaf
Devices | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs | 727
DHCP Relay — Release History | 729
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 730
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 731
```

x Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 733 Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 734

Configuring Storm Control | 734

Verifying Storm Control | 735

Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering | 735

Verifying MAC Filtering | 738

Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring | 738

Verifying Port Mirroring | 739

Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History | 739

xi

About This Guide

Dive in to the Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture Guide, which gives network designers and operators the information they need to build a state-of-the-art, multiservice, cloud data center network.

1

CHAPTER

Data Center Fabric Blueprint

Architecture—Overview

IN THIS CHAPTER

About This Architecture Guide | 2

Terminology | 2

Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture | 6

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

2

About This Architecture Guide

The purpose of this guide is to provide networking professionals with the concepts and tools needed to build multiservice data center fabric networks. The intended audience for this guide includes system integrators, infrastructure professionals, partners, and customers that are currently using or considering upgrading to a high-end IP fabric data center fabric architecture.

Terminology

IN THIS SECTION

Glossary Terms | 2 This section provides a summary of commonly used terms, protocols, and building block technologies used in creating and maintaining data center networks.

Glossary Terms

• ARP—Address Resolution Protocol. A protocol defined in RFC 826 for mapping a logical IP address to

a physical MAC address.

• Backbone Device—A device in the WAN cloud that is directly connected to a spine device or devices

in a data center. Backbone devices are required in this reference topology to provide physical connectivity between data centers that are interconnected using a data center interconnect (DCI).

• Border Leaf—A device that typically has the sole purpose of providing a connection to one or more

external devices. The external devices, for example, multicast gateways or data center gateways, provide additional functionality to the IP fabric.

• Border Spine—A device that typically has two roles—a network underlay device and a border device

that provides a connection to one or more external devices. The external devices, for example, multicast gateways or data center gateways, provide additional functionality to the IP fabric.

3

• Bridged Overlay—An Ethernet-based overlay service designed for data center environments that do

not require routing within an EVPN/VXLAN fabric. IP routing can provided externally to the fabric as needed.

• BUM—Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, and Multicast. The BUM acronym collectively identifies the

three traffic types.

• Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay—A form of IRB overlay that provides routing at a central gateway

and bridging at the edge of the overlay network. In an IRB overlay, a routed overlay and one or more bridged overlays connect at one or more locations through the use of IRB interfaces.

• Clos Network—A multistage network topology first developed by Charles Clos for telephone

networks that provides multiple paths to a destination at each stage of the topology. Non-blocking networks are possible in a Clos-based topology.

• Collapsed Spine fabric—An EVPN fabric design in which the overlay functions are collapsed onto the

spine layer rather than distributed between spine and leaf devices. This type of fabric has no leaf layer in the EVPN core; the spine devices connect directly to the access layer.

• Contrail Command—Contrail Enterprise Multicloud user interface. Provides a consolidated, easy-to-

use software designed to automate the creation and management of data center networks.

• Contrail Enterprise Multicloud—A suite of products and software that combines Contrail Command

as a single point of management for private and public clouds, QFX Series switches running Junos OS as an infrastructure for data center networking, and Contrail Insights (formerly known as AppFormix) for telemetry and network visualization.

• DCI—Data Center Interconnect. The technology used to interconnect separate data centers.

• Default instance—A global instance in a Juniper Networks device that hosts the primary routing table

such as inet.0 (default routing instance) and the primary MAC address table (default switching instance).

• DHCP relay—A function that allows a DHCP server and client to exchange DHCP messages over the

network when they are not in the same Ethernet broadcast domain. DHCP relay is typically implemented at a default gateway.

• EBGP—External BGP. A routing protocol used to exchange routing information between autonomous

networks. It has also been used more recently in place of a traditional Interior Gateway Protocols, such as IS-IS and OSPF, for routing within an IP fabric.

• Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay—A form of IRB overlay that provides routing and bridging at the edge

of the overlay network.

• End System—An endpoint device that connects into the data center. An end system can be a wide

range of equipment but is often a server, a router, or another networking device in the data center.

4

• ESI—Ethernet segment identifier. An ESI is a 10-octet integer that identifies a unique Ethernet

segment in EVPN. In this blueprint architecture, LAGs with member links on different access devices are assigned a unique ESI to enable Ethernet multihoming.

• Ethernet-connected Multihoming—An Ethernet-connected end system that connects to the network

using Ethernet access interfaces on two or more devices.

• EVPN—Ethernet Virtual Private Network. A VPN technology that supports bridged, routed, and

hybrid network overlay services. EVPN is defined in RFC 7432 with extensions defined in a number of IETF draft standards.

• EVPN Type 2 Route—Advertises MAC addresses and the associated IP addresses from end systems

to devices participating in EVPN.

• GBP—Group based policy. GBP uses firewall filter rules to provide micro and macro segmentation

(security policies) for EVPN-VXLAN by using the reserved fields in the VXLAN header for match conditions.

• IBGP—Internal BGP. In this blueprint architecture, IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP) is used

for EVPN signalling between the devices in the overlay.

• IP Fabric—An all-IP fabric network infrastructure that provides multiple symmetric paths between all

devices in the fabric. We support an IP Fabric with IPv4 (an IPv4 Fabric) with all architectures described in this guide, and an IP Fabric with IPv6 (an IPv6 Fabric) with some architectures and on some platforms.

• IP-connected Multihoming—An IP-connected end system that connects to the network using IP

access interfaces on two or more devices.

• IRB—Integrated Routing and Bridging. A technique that enables routing between VLANs and allows

traffic to be routed or bridged based on whether the destination is outside or inside of a bridging domain. To activate IRB, you associate a logical interface (IRB interface) with a VLAN and configure the IRB interface with an IP address for the VLAN subnet.

• Leaf Device—An access level network device in an IP fabric topology. End systems connect to the

leaf devices in this blueprint architecture.

• MAC-VRF instance—A routing instance type that enables you to configure multiple customer-

specific EVPN instances instead of only one instance (the default instance). MAC-VRF instances use a consistent configuration style across platforms. Different MAC-VRF instances can support different Ethernet service types (VLAN-aware and VLAN-based services) on the same device in a data center.

• Multiservice Cloud Data Center Network—A data center network that optimizes the use of available

compute, storage, and network access interfaces by allowing them to be shared flexibly across diverse applications, tenants, and use cases.

5

• NDP—Neighbor Discovery Protocol. An IPv6 protocol defined in RFC 4861 that combines the

functionality of ARP and ICMP, and adds other enhanced capabilities.

• NVE—As defined in RFC 8365, A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN

(EVPN), a network virtualization edge is a device that terminates a VXLAN tunnel in a network virtualization overlay. For example, in a centrally routed bridging overlay, we consider spine and leaf devices to be NVE devices.

• NVO—A network virtualization overlay is a fabric in which we use EVPN as a control plane and

VXLAN as a data plane.

• Routed Overlay—An IP-based overlay service where no Ethernet bridging is required. Also referred

to as an IP VPN. In this blueprint architecture, the routed overlay is based on EVPN Type 5 routes and their associated procedures, and supported by VXLAN tunneling.

• Spine Device—A centrally-located device in an IP fabric topology that has a connection to each leaf

device.

• Storm Control—Feature that prevents BUM traffic storms by monitoring BUM traffic levels and

taking a specified action to limit BUM traffic forwarding when a specified traffic level is exceeded.

• Symmetric IRB Routing—An intersubnet forwarding model in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics where the

VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEPs) symmetrically route the traffic for a tenant virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance using the same VXLAN network identifier (VNI) on both sides of the VXLAN tunnel. We support EVPN Type 5 routing using the symmetric IRB model by default. Type 2 routing is asymmetric by default; you can configure a device to use the symmetric IRB model for EVPN Type 2 routing in a particular VRF.

• Underlay Network—A network that provides basic network connectivity between devices.In this

blueprint architecture, the underlay network is an IP Fabric that provides the basic IP connectivity, usually with IPv4. We also support an IP Fabric with an IPv6 underlay with some architecture designs on certain platforms.

• VLAN trunking—The ability for one interface to support multiple VLANs.

• VNI—VXLAN Network Identifier. Uniquely identifies a VXLAN virtual network. A VNI encoded in a

VXLAN header can support 16 million virtual networks.

• VTEP—VXLAN Tunnel Endpoint. A loopback or virtual interface where traffic enters and exits a

VXLAN tunnel. Tenant traffic is encapsulated into VXLAN packets at a source VTEP, and deencapsulated when the traffic leaves the VXLAN tunnel at a remote VTEP.

• VXLAN—Virtual Extensible LAN. Network virtualization tunneling protocol defined in RFC 7348 used

to build virtual networks over an IP-routed infrastructure. VXLAN is used to tunnel tenant traffic over the IP fabric underlay from a source endpoint at an ingress device to a destination endpoint at the

6 egress device. These tunnels are established dynamically by EVPN. Each VTEP device advertises its loopback address in the underlay network for VXLAN tunnel reachability between VTEP devices.

• VXLAN Stitching—A Data Center Interconnect (DCI) feature that supports Layer 2 interconnection

EVPN-VXLAN fabric on a per-VXLAN VNI basis.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Contrail Enterprise Multicloud Components

Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint

Architecture

IN THIS SECTION

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Introduction | 6

Building Blocks | 7

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Introduction

This section provides an introduction to the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture. It includes the following sections.

The Next Act for Data Center Networks

For truly cloud-native workloads that have no dependency on Ethernet broadcast, multicast, segmentation, multitenancy, or workload mobility, the best solution is typically a simple IP fabric network. When a unique workload instance requires mobility, the current host system can advertise the unique IP address of the workload. This can be performed with EBGP route exchange between the host system and the ToR. However, support for BUM and multitenancy require more advanced network functions. This is where overlays are added.

7 Over its evolution the data center network was a function of the demands and expectations placed on it. As the nature of workloads changed, the network had to adapt. Each solution simplified a set of problems by trading one form of complexity and cost for another. The cloud network is no different. In the end, bits must be moved from point A to point B reliably, securely, and at the desired throughput. Where operators need a single network to serve more than one purpose (the multiservice cloud network), they can add network-layer segmentation and other functions to share the infrastructure across diverse groups of endpoints and tenants. Operational simplicity is achieved with a centralized controller that implements an intent model that is consistent with the cloud scale functions of the network layer. Technical simplicity is achieved using a reduced set of building blocks that are based on open standards and homogeneous across the end-to-end network. This guide introduces a building block approach to creating multiservice cloud networks on the foundation of a modern IP fabric. The Juniper Networks solutions team will systematically review the set of building blocks required for an agile network, focus on specific, state-of-the-art, open standardsbased technology that enables each function, and add new functionality to the guide as it becomes available in future software releases. All the building blocks are fully synergistic and you can combine any of the building blocks with any other to satisfy a diverse set of use cases simultaneously — this is the hallmark of the cloud. You should consider how you can leverage the building blocks in this guide to achieve the use cases that are relevant to your network.

Building Blocks

The guide organizes the technologies used to build multiservice cloud network architectures into modular building blocks. Each building block includes features that either must be implemented together to build the network, are often implemented together because they provide complementary functionality, or are presented together to provide choices for particular technologies. This blueprint architecture includes required building blocks and optional building blocks. The optional building blocks can be added or removed to support the needs of a specific multiservice data center fabric network. This guide walks you through the design and technology choices associated with each building block, and provides information designed to help you choose the building blocks that best meet the needs for your multiservice data center fabric network. The guide also provides the implementation procedures for each building block. The currently-supported building blocks include:

• IP Fabric Underlay Network

• Network Virtualization Overlays

8

• Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay

• Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

• Routed Overlay

• Multihoming

• Multihoming of Ethernet-connected End Systems

• Multihoming of IP-connected End Systems

• Data Center Interconnect (DCI)

• Service Chaining

• Multicast

• Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization

• DHCP Relay

• Proxy ARP

• Layer 2 Port Security

Additional building blocks will be added to this guide as support for the technology becomes available and is validated by the Juniper Networks testing team. Each building block is discussed in more detail in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. For information about the hardware and software that serve as a foundation to your building blocks, see "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

9

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture

Components

IN THIS SECTION

IP Fabric Underlay Network | 9

IPv4 and IPv6 Workload Support | 12

Network Virtualization Overlays | 13

Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 28 Multihoming Support for IP-Connected End Systems | 29 Border Devices | 29

Data Center Interconnect (DCI) | 32

Service Chaining | 34 Multicast Optimizations | 35

Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN | 42

DHCP Relay | 44 Reducing ARP Traffic with ARP Synchronization and Suppression (Proxy ARP) | 45 Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 45 This section gives an overview of the building blocks used in this blueprint architecture. The implementation of each building block technology is explored in more detail later sections. For information about the hardware and software that serve as a foundation to your building blocks, see the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51. The building blocks include:

IP Fabric Underlay Network

The modern IP fabric underlay network building block provides IP connectivity across a Clos-based topology. Juniper Networks supports the following IP fabric underlay models:

10

• A 3-stage IP fabric, which is made up of a tier of spine devices and a tier of leaf devices. See Figure 1

on page 10.

• A 5-stage IP fabric, which typically starts as a single 3-stage IP fabric that grows into two 3-stage IP

fabrics. These fabrics are segmented into separate points of delivery (PODs) within a data center. For this use case, we support the addition of a tier of super spine devices that enable communication between the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs. See Figure 2 on page 11.

• A collapsed spine IP fabric model, in which leaf layer functions are collapsed onto the spine devices.

This type of fabric can be set up and operate similarly to either a 3-stage or 5-stage IP fabric except without a separate tier of leaf devices. You might use a collapsed spine fabric if you are moving incrementally to an EVPN spine-and-leaf model, or you have access devices or top-of-rack (TOR) devices that can’t be used in a leaf layer because they don’t support EVPN-VXLAN.

Figure 1: Three-Stage IP Fabric Underlay

11

Figure 2: Five-Stage IP Fabric Underlay

In these figures, the devices are interconnected using high-speed interfaces that are either single links or aggregated Ethernet interfaces. The aggregated Ethernet interfaces are optional—a single link between devices is typically used— but can be deployed to increase bandwidth and provide link level redundancy. We cover both options. We chose EBGP as the routing protocol in the underlay network for its dependability and scalability. Each device is assigned its own autonomous system with a unique autonomous system number to support EBGP. You can use other routing protocols in the underlay network; the usage of those protocols is beyond the scope of this document.

12 The reference architecture designs described in this guide are based on an IP Fabric that uses EBGP for the underlay connectivity and IBGP for overlay peering (see "IBGP for Overlays" on page 14). You can alternatively configure the overlay peering using EBGP. Starting in Junos OS Releases 21.2R2 and 21.4R1, we also support configuring an IPv6 Fabric. The IPv6 Fabric design in this guide uses EBGP for both underlay connectivity and overlay peering (see "EBGP for Overlays with IPv6 Underlays" on page 15). NOTE: The IP Fabric can use IPv4 or IPv6 as follows:

• An IPv4 Fabric uses IPv4 interface addressing, and IPv4 underlay and overlay BGP

sessions for end-to-end workload communication.

• An IPv6 Fabric uses IPv6 interface addressing, and IPv6 underlay and overlay BGP

sessions for end-to-end workload communication.

• We don’t support an IP Fabric that mixes IPv4 and IPv6.

However, both IPv4 Fabrics and IPv6 Fabrics support dual-stack workloads—the workloads can be either IPv4 or IPv6, or both IPv4 and IPv6. Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)—the ability to run BFD on individual links in an aggregated Ethernet interface—can also be enabled in this building block to quickly detect link failures on any member links in aggregated Ethernet bundles that connect devices. For more information, see these other sections in this guide:

• Configuring spine and leaf devices in 3-stage and 5-stage IP fabric underlays: "IP Fabric Underlay

Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

• Implementing the additional tier of super spine devices in a 5-stage IP fabric underlay: "Five-Stage IP

Fabric Design and Implementation" on page 285.

• Configuring an IPv6 underlay and supporting EBGP IPv6 overlay: "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay

Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.

• Setting up the underlay in a collapsed spine fabric model: "Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and

Implementation" on page 315.

IPv4 and IPv6 Workload Support

Because many networks implement a dual stack environment for workloads that includes IPv4 and IPv6 protocols, this blueprint provides support for both protocols. Steps to configure the fabric to support

13 IPv4 and IPv6 workloads are interwoven throughout this guide to allow you to pick one or both of these protocols. NOTE: The IP protocol you use for workload traffic is independent of the IP protocol version (IPv4 or IPv6) that you configure for the IP Fabric underlay and overlay. (See "IP Fabric Underlay Network" on page 9.) An IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure can support both IPv4 and IPv6 workloads.

Network Virtualization Overlays

A network virtualization overlay is a virtual network that is transported over an IP underlay network. This building block enables multitenancy in a network, allowing you to share a single physical network across multiple tenants, while keeping each tenant’s network traffic isolated from the other tenants. A tenant is a user community (such as a business unit, department, workgroup, or application) that contains groups of endpoints. Groups may communicate with other groups in the same tenancy, and tenants may communicate with other tenants if permitted by network policies. A group is typically expressed as a subnet (VLAN) that can communicate with other devices in the same subnet, and reach external groups and endpoints by way of a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance. As seen in the overlay example shown in Figure 3 on page 14, Ethernet bridging tables (represented by triangles) handle tenant bridged frames and IP routing tables (represented by squares) process routed packets. Inter-VLAN routing happens at the integrated routing and bridging (IRB) interfaces (represented by circles). Ethernet and IP tables are directed into virtual networks (represented by colored lines). To reach end systems attached to other VXLAN Tunnel Endpoint (VTEP) devices, tenant packets are encapsulated and sent over an EVPN-signalled VXLAN tunnel (represented by green tunnel icons) to the associated remote VTEP devices. Tunneled packets are de-encapsulated at the remote VTEP devices and forwarded to the remote end systems by way of the respective bridging or routing tables of the egress VTEP device.

14 Figure 3: VXLAN Tunnels—Ethernet Bridging, IP Routing, and IRB The next sections provide more details about overlay networks. IBGP for Overlays Internal BGP (IBGP) is a routing protocol that exchanges reachability information across an IP network. When IBGP is combined with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP), it provides the foundation for EVPN to exchange reachability information between VTEP devices. This capability is required to establish inter- VTEP VXLAN tunnels and use them for overlay connectivity services. Figure 4 on page 15 shows that the spine and leaf devices use their loopback addresses for peering in a single autonomous system. In this design, the spine devices act as a route reflector cluster and the leaf devices are route reflector clients. A route reflector satisfies the IBGP requirement for a full mesh without the need to peer all the VTEP devices directly with one another. As a result, the leaf devices peer only with the spine devices and the spine devices peer with both spine devices and leaf devices. Because the spine devices are connected to all the leaf devices, the spine devices can relay IBGP information between the indirectly peered leaf device neighbors.

15 Figure 4: IBGP for Overlays You can place route reflectors almost anywhere in the network. However, you must consider the following:

• Does the selected device have enough memory and processing power to handle the additional

workload required by a route reflector?

• Is the selected device equidistant and reachable from all EVPN speakers?

• Does the selected device have the proper software capabilities?

In this design, the route reflector cluster is placed at the spine layer. The QFX switches that you can use as a spine in this reference design have ample processing speed to handle route reflector client traffic in the network virtualization overlay. For details about implementing IBGP in an overlay, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. EBGP for Overlays with IPv6 Underlays The original reference architecture use cases in this guide illustrate an IPv4 EBGP underlay design with IPv4 IBGP overlay device connectivity. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network" on page 9 and "IBGP for Overlays" on page 14. However, as network virtualization edge (NVE) devices start adopting IPv6 VTEPs

16 to take advantage of the extended addressing range and capabilities of IPv6, we have expanded IP Fabric support to encompass IPv6. Starting in Junos OS Release 21.2R2-S1, on supporting platforms you can alternatively use an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure with some reference architecture overlay designs. The IPv6 Fabric design comprises IPv6 interface addressing, an IPv6 EBGP underlay and an IPv6 EBGP overlay for workload connectivity. With an IPv6 Fabric, the NVE devices encapsulate the VXLAN header with an IPv6 outer header and tunnel the packets across the fabric end to end using IPv6 next hops. The workload can be IPv4 or IPv6. Most of the elements you configure in the supported reference architecture overlay designs are independent of whether the underlay and overlay infrastructure uses IPv4 or IPv6. The corresponding configuration procedures for each of the supported overlay designs call out any configuration differences if the underlay and overlay uses the IPv6 Fabric design. For more details, see the following references in this guide and other resources:

• Configuring an IPv6 Fabric using EBGP for underlay connectivity and overlay peering: "IPv6 Fabric

Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.

• Starting releases in which different platforms support an IPv6 Fabric design when serving in

particular roles in the fabric: "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.

• Overview of IPv6 underlay and overlay peering support in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics on Juniper

Networks devices: EVPN-VXLAN with an IPv6 Underlay.

Bridged Overlay

The first overlay service type described in this guide is a bridged overlay, as shown in Figure 5 on page 17.

17

Figure 5: Bridged Overlay

In this overlay model, Ethernet VLANs are extended between leaf devices across VXLAN tunnels. These leaf-to-leaf VXLAN tunnels support data center networks that require Ethernet connectivity between leaf devices but do not need routing between the VLANs. As a result, the spine devices provide only basic underlay and overlay connectivity for the leaf devices, and do not perform routing or gateway services seen with other overlay methods. Leaf devices originate VTEPs to connect to the other leaf devices. The tunnels enable the leaf devices to send VLAN traffic to other leaf devices and Ethernet-connected end systems in the data center. The simplicity of this overlay service makes it attractive for operators who need an easy way to introduce EVPN/VXLAN into their existing Ethernet-based data center. NOTE: You can add routing to a bridged overlay by implementing an MX Series router or SRX Series security device external to the EVPN/VXLAN fabric. Otherwise, you can select one of the other overlay types that incorporate routing (such as an "edge-routed bridging overlay" on page 236, a "centrally-routed bridging overlay" on page 172, or a "routed overlay" on page 267). For information on implementing a bridged overlay, see "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142.

Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay

The second overlay service type is the centrally routed bridging (CRB) overlay, as shown in Figure 6 on page 18.

18

Figure 6: Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay

In a CRB overlay, routing occurs at a central gateway of the data center network (the spine layer in this example) rather than at the VTEP device where the end systems are connected (the leaf layer in this example). You can use this overlay model when you need routed traffic to go through a centralized gateway or when your edge VTEP devices lack the required routing capabilities. As shown above, traffic that originates at the Ethernet-connected end systems is forwarded to the leaf VTEP devices over a trunk (multiple VLANs) or an access port (single VLAN). The VTEP device forwards the traffic to local end systems or to an end system at a remote VTEP device. An integrated routing and bridging (IRB) interface at each spine device helps route traffic between the Ethernet virtual networks. The VLAN-aware bridging overlay service model enables you to easily aggregate a collection of VLANs into the same overlay virtual network. The Juniper Networks EVPN design supports three VLAN-aware Ethernet service model configurations in the data center, as follows:

• Default instance VLAN-aware—With this option, you implement a single, default switching instance

that supports a total of 4094 VLANs. All leaf platforms included in this design ("Data Center EVPN- VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51) support the default instance style of VLAN-aware overlay. To configure this service model, see Configuring a VLAN-Aware Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay in the Default Instance.

• Virtual switch VLAN-aware—With this option, multiple virtual switch instances support up to 4094

VLANs per instance. This Ethernet service model is ideal for overlay networks that require scalability

19 beyond a single default instance. Support for this option is available currently on the QFX10000 line of switches. To implement this scalable service model, see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205.

• MAC-VRF instance VLAN-aware—With this option, multiple MAC-VRF instances support up to

4094 VLANs per instance. This Ethernet service model is ideal for overlay networks that require scalability beyond a single default instance, and where you want more options to ensure VLAN isolation or interconnection among different tenants in the same fabric. Support for this option is available on the platforms that support MAC-VRF instances (see Feature Explorer: MAC VRF with EVPN-VXLAN). To implement this scalable service model, see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205.

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

The third overlay service option is the edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay, as shown in Figure 7 on page 20.

20

Figure 7: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

In this Ethernet service model, the IRB interfaces are moved to leaf device VTEPs at the edge of the overlay network to bring IP routing closer to the end systems. Because of the special ASIC capabilities required to support bridging, routing, and EVPN/VXLAN in one device, ERB overlays are only possible on certain switches. For a list of switches that we support as leaf devices in an ERB overlay, see "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51. This model allows for a simpler overall network. The spine devices are configured to handle only IP traffic, which removes the need to extend the bridging overlays to the spine devices. This option also enables faster server-to-server, intra-data center traffic (also known as east-west traffic) where the end systems are connected to the same leaf device VTEP. As a result, routing happens much closer to the end systems than with CRB overlays. NOTE: When you configure IRB interfaces that are included in EVPN Type-5 routing instances on QFX5110 or QFX5120 switches that function as leaf devices, the device automatically enables symmetric inter-IRB unicast routing for EVPN Type 5 routes. For information on implementing the ERB overlay, see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236.

21

Collapsed Spine Overlay

The overlay network in a collapsed spine architecture is similar to an ERB overlay. In a collapsed spine architecture, the leaf device functions are collapsed onto the spine devices. Because there is no leaf layer, you configure the VTEPS and IRB interfaces on the spine devices, which are at the edge of the overlay network like the leaf devices in an ERB model. The spine devices can also perform border gateway functions to route north-south traffic, or extend Layer 2 traffic across data center locations. For a list of switches that we support with a collapsed spine architecture, see "Data Center EVPN- VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51. Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays To help you decide which overlay type is best suited for your EVPN environment, see Table 1 on page 21. NOTE: We support mixing bridged overlay, CRB overlay, and ERB overlay configurations on the same device at the same time on devices that support these overlay types. You don't need to configure the device with separate logical systems for the device to operate in different types of overlays in parallel. Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays

| Comparison Points | ERB Overlay | CRB Overlay | Bridged Overlay |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | ✓ |  |  |
|  | ✓ |  |  |
|  | ✓ |  |  |
|  | ✓ |  |  |

22 Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays (Continued)

23 Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays (Continued)

IRB Addressing Models in Bridging Overlays

The configuration of IRB interfaces in CRB and ERB overlays requires an understanding of the models for the default gateway IP and MAC address configuration of IRB interfaces as follows:

• Unique IRB IP Address—In this model, a unique IP address is configured on each IRB interface in an

overlay subnet. The benefit of having a unique IP address and MAC address on each IRB interface is the ability to monitor and reach each of the IRB interfaces from within the overlay using its unique IP address. This model also allows you to configure a routing protocol on the IRB interface. The downside of this model is that allocating a unique IP address to each IRB interface may consume many IP addresses of a subnet.

• Unique IRB IP Address with Virtual Gateway IP Address—This model adds a virtual gateway IP

address to the previous model, and we recommend it for centrally routed bridged overlays. It is similar to VRRP, but without the in-band data plane signaling between the gateway IRB interfaces. The virtual gateway should be the same for all default gateway IRB interfaces in the overlay subnet and is active on all gateway IRB interfaces where it is configured. You should also configure a common IPv4 MAC address for the virtual gateway, which becomes the source MAC address on data packets forwarded over the IRB interface. In addition to the benefits of the previous model, the virtual gateway simplifies default gateway configuration on end systems. The downside of this model is the same as the previous model.

• IRB with Anycast IP Address and MAC Address—In this model, all default gateway IRB interfaces in

an overlay subnet are configured with the same IP and MAC address. We recommend this model for ERB overlays. A benefit of this model is that only a single IP address is required per subnet for default gateway IRB interface addressing, which simplifies default gateway configuration on end systems. Routed Overlay using EVPN Type 5 Routes The final overlay option is a routed overlay, as shown in Figure 8 on page 24.

24

Figure 8: Routed Overlay

This option is an IP-routed virtual network service. Unlike an MPLS-based IP VPN, the virtual network in this model is based on EVPN/VXLAN. Cloud providers prefer this virtual network option because most modern applications are optimized for IP. Because all communication between devices happens at the IP layer, there is no need to use any Ethernet bridging components, such as VLANs and ESIs, in this routed overlay model. For information on implementing a routed overlay, see "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 267.

MAC-VRF Instances for Multitenancy in Network Virtualization Overlays

MAC-VRF routing instances enable you to configure multiple EVPN instances with different Ethernet service types on a device acting as a VTEP in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric. Using MAC-VRF instances, you can manage multiple tenants in the data center with customer-specific VRF tables to isolate or group tenant workloads. MAC-VRF instances also introduce support for the VLAN-based service type in addition to the prior support for the VLAN-aware service type. See Figure 9 on page 25.

25

Figure 9: MAC-VRF Service Types

• VLAN-based service—You can configure one VLAN and the corresponding VXLAN network identifier

(VNI) in the MAC-VRF instance. To provision a new VLAN and VNI, you must configure a new MAC VRF instance with the new VLAN and VNI.

• VLAN-aware service—You can configure one or more VLANs and the corresponding VNIs in the same

MAC-VRF instance. To provision a new VLAN and VNI, you can add the new VLAN and VNI configuration to the existing MAC-VRF instance, which saves some configuration steps over using a VLAN-based service. MAC-VRF instances enable more flexible configuration options at both Layer 2 and Layer 3. For example: Figure 10: Flexible Configuration Options at both Layer 2 and Layer 3 with MAC-VRF Instances Figure 10 on page 25 shows that with MAC-VRF instances:

• You can configure different service types in different MAC-VRF instances on the same device.

• You have flexible tenant isolation options at Layer 2 (MAC-VRF instances) as well as at Layer 3 (VRF

instances). You can configure a VRF instance that corresponds to the VLAN or VLANs in a single MAC-VRF instance. Or you can configure a VRF instance that spans the VLANs in multiple MAC-VRF instances. Figure 11 on page 26 shows an ERB overlay fabric with a sample MAC-VRF configuration for tenant separation.

26 Figure 11: ERB Overlay Fabric with MAC-VRF Instances for Tenant Separation In Figure 11 on page 26, the leaf devices establish VXLAN tunnels that maintain isolation at Layer 2 between Tenant 12 (VLAN 1 and VLAN 2) and Tenant 3 (VLAN 3) using MAC-VRF instances MAC- VRF 12 and MAC-VRF 3. The leaf devices also isolate the tenants at Layer 3 using VRF instances VRF 12 and VRF 3. You can employ other options for sharing VLAN traffic between tenants that are isolated at Layer 2 and Layer 3 by the MAC-VRF and VRF configurations, such as:

• Establish a secure external interconnection between tenant VRFs through a firewall.

• Configure local route leaking between Layer 3 VRFs.

For more information about MAC-VRF instances and using them in an example customer use case, see EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC-VRF L2 Services. MAC-VRF instances correspond to forwarding instances as follows:

• MAC-VRF instances on switches in the QFX5000 line (including those that run Junos OS or Junos

OS Evolved) are all part of the default forwarding instance. On these devices, you can’t configure overlapping VLANs in a MAC-VRF instance or across multiple MAC-VRF instances.

• On the QFX10000 line of switches, you can configure multiple forwarding instances, and map a

MAC-VRF instance to a particular forwarding instance. You can also map multiple MAC-VRF instances to the same forwarding instance. If you configure each MAC-VRF instance to use a different forwarding instance, you can configure overlapping VLANs across the multiple MAC-VRF instances. You can’t configure overlapping VLANs in a single MAC-VRF instance or across MAC-VRF instances that map to the same forwarding instance.

27

• In the default configuration, switches include a default VLAN with VLAN ID=1 associated with the

default forwarding instance. Because VLAN IDs must be unique in a forwarding instance, if you want to configure a VLAN with VLAN ID=1 in a MAC-VRF instance that uses the default forwarding instance, you must reassign the VLAN ID of the default VLAN to a value other than 1. For example: The reference network virtualization overlay configuration examples in this guide include steps to configure the overlay using MAC-VRF instances. You configure an EVPN routing instance of type mac-vrf, and set a route distinguisher and a route target in the instance. You also include the desired interfaces (including a VTEP source interface), VLANs, and VLAN-to-VNI mappings in the instance. See the reference configurations in the following topics:

• "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142—You configure MAC-VRF instances on

the leaf devices.

• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172—You configure MAC-

VRF instances on the spine devices. On the leaf devices, the MAC-VRF configuration is similar to the MAC-VRF leaf configuration in a bridged overlay design.

• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236—You configure MAC-VRF

instances on the leaf devices. NOTE: A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure shared tunnels, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. You globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device using the shared-tunnels statement at the [edit forwarding-options evpn-vxlan] hierarchy level. This setting requires you to reboot the device. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS, which can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. On devices running Junos OS Evolved in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, shared tunnels are enabled by default. Junos OS Evolved supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF configurations.

28

Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems

Figure 12: Ethernet-Connected End System Multihoming

Ethernet-connected multihoming allows Ethernet-connected end systems to connect into the Ethernet overlay network over a single-homed link to one VTEP device or over multiple links multihomed to different VTEP devices. Ethernet traffic is load-balanced across the fabric between VTEPs on leaf devices that connect to the same end system. We tested setups where an Ethernet-connected end system was connected to a single leaf device or multihomed to 2 or 3 leaf devices to prove traffic is properly handled in multihomed setups with more than two leaf VTEP devices; in practice, an Ethernet-connected end system can be multihomed to a large number of leaf VTEP devices. All links are active and network traffic can be load balanced over all of the multihomed links. In this architecture, EVPN is used for Ethernet-connected multihoming. EVPN multihomed LAGs are identified by an Ethernet segment identifier (ESI) in the EVPN bridging overlay while LACP is used to improve LAG availability. VLAN trunking allows one interface to support multiple VLANs. VLAN trunking ensures that virtual machines (VMs) on non-overlay hypervisors can operate in any overlay networking context. For more information about Ethernet-connected multihoming support, see "Multihoming an Ethernet- Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229.

29

Multihoming Support for IP-Connected End Systems

Figure 13: IP-Connected End System Multihoming

IP-connected multihoming endpoint systems to connect to the IP network over multiple IP-based access interfaces on different leaf devices. We tested setups where an IP–connected end system was connected to a single leaf or multihomed to 2 or 3 leaf devices. The setup validated that traffic is properly handled when multihomed to multiple leaf devices; in practice, an IP-connected end system can be multihomed to a large number of leaf devices. In multihomed setups, all links are active and network traffic is forwarded and received over all multihomed links. IP traffic is load balanced across the multihomed links using a simple hashing algorithm. EBGP is used to exchange routing information between the IP-connected endpoint system and the connected leaf devices to ensure the route or routes to the endpoint systems are shared with all spine and leaf devices. For more information about the IP-connected multihoming building block, see "Multihoming an IP- Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 281.

Border Devices

Some of our reference designs include border devices that provide connections to the following devices, which are external to the local IP fabric:

• A multicast gateway.

30

• A data center gateway for data center interconnect (DCI).

• A device such as an SRX router on which multiple services such as firewalls, Network Address

Translation (NAT), intrusion detection and prevention (IDP), multicast, and so on are consolidated. The consolidation of multiple services onto one physical device is known as service chaining.

• Appliances or servers that act as firewalls, DHCP servers, sFlow collectors, and so on.

NOTE: If your network includes legacy appliances or servers that require a 1-Gbps Ethernet connection to a border device, we recommend using a QFX10008 or a QFX5120 switch as the border device. To provide the additional functionality described above, Juniper Networks supports deploying a border device in the following ways:

• As a device that serves as a border device only. In this dedicated role, you can configure the device to

handle one or more of the tasks described above. For this situation, the device is typically deployed as a border leaf, which is connected to a spine device. For example, in the ERB overlay shown in Figure 14 on page 31, border leafs L5 and L6 provide connectivity to data center gateways for DCI, an sFlow collector, and a DHCP server.

• As a device that has two roles—a network underlay device and a border device that can handle one

or more of the tasks described above. For this situation, a spine device usually handles the two roles. Therefore, the border device functionality is referred to as a border spine. For example, in the ERB overlay shown in Figure 15 on page 31, border spines S1 and S2 function as lean spine devices. They also provide connectivity to data center gateways for DCI, an sFlow collector, and a DHCP server.

31

Figure 14: Sample ERB Topology with Border Leafs

Figure 15: Sample ERB Topology with Border Spines

32

Data Center Interconnect (DCI)

The data center interconnect (DCI) building block provides the technology needed to send traffic between data centers. The validated design supports DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes, IPVPN routes, and Layer 2 DCI with VXLAN stitching. EVPN Type 5 or IPVPN routes are used in a DCI context to ensure inter-data center traffic between data centers using different IP address subnetting schemes can be exchanged. Routes are exchanged between spine devices in different data centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers.

33 Figure 16: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes Topology Overview Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before you can configure DCI. The physical connectivity is provided by backbone devices in a WAN cloud. A backbone device is connected to all spine devices in a single data center (POD), as well as to the other backbone devices that are connected to the other data centers. For information about configuring DCI, see:

34

• "Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes " on page 361

• "Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN" on page 387

• "Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect" on page 391

Service Chaining

In many networks, it is common for traffic to flow through separate hardware devices that each provide a service, such as firewalls, NAT, IDP, multicast, and so on. Each device requires separate operation and management. This method of linking multiple network functions can be thought of as physical service chaining. A more efficient model for service chaining is to virtualize and consolidate network functions onto a single device. In our blueprint architecture, we are using the SRX Series routers as the device that consolidates network functions and processes and applies services. That device is called a physical network function (PNF). In this solution, service chaining is supported on both CRB overlay and ERB overlay. It works only for inter-tenant traffic.

Logical View of Service Chaining

Figure 17 on page 34 shows a logical view of service chaining. It shows one spine with a right side configuration and a left side configuration. On each side is a VRF routing instance and an IRB interface. The SRX Series router in the center is the PNF, and it performs the service chaining.

Figure 17: Service Chaining Logical View

35 The flow of traffic in this logical view is:

1. The spine receives a packet on the VTEP that is in the left side VRF.

2. The packet is de-encapsulated and sent to the left side IRB interface.

3. The IRB interface routes the packet to the SRX Series router, which is acting as the PNF.

4. The SRX Series router performs service chaining on the packet and forwards the packet back to the

spine, where it is received on the IRB interface shown on the right side of the spine.

5. The IRB interface routes the packet to the VTEP in the right side VRF.

For information about configuring service chaining, see "Service Chaining Design and Implementation" on page 508.

Multicast Optimizations

Multicast optimizations help to preserve bandwidth and more efficiently route traffic in a multicast scenario in EVPN VXLAN environments. Without any multicast optimizations configured, all multicast replication is done at the ingress of the leaf connected to the multicast source as shown in Figure 18 on page 36. Multicast traffic is sent to all leaf devices that are connected to the spine. Each leaf device sends traffic to connected hosts.

36 Figure 18: Multicast without Optimizations There are a few types of multicast optimizations supported in EVPN VXLAN environments that can work together: For information about configuring multicast features, see:

• "Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation" on page 533

• "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging

Overlays" on page 546

IGMP Snooping

IGMP snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric is useful to optimize the distribution of multicast traffic. IGMP snooping preserves bandwidth because multicast traffic is forwarded only on interfaces where there are IGMP listeners. Not all interfaces on a leaf device need to receive multicast traffic. Without IGMP snooping, end systems receive IP multicast traffic that they have no interest in, which needlessly floods their links with unwanted traffic. In some cases when IP multicast flows are large, flooding unwanted traffic causes denial-of-service issues. Figure 19 on page 37 shows how IGMP snooping works in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric. In this sample EVPN-VXLAN fabric, IGMP snooping is configured on all leaf devices, and multicast receiver 2 has previously sent an IGMPv2 join request.

1. Multicast Receiver 2 sends an IGMPv2 leave request.

37

2. Multicast Receivers 3 and 4 send an IGMPv2 join request.

3. When leaf 1 receives ingress multicast traffic, it replicates it for all leaf devices, and forwards it to the

spine.

4. The spine forwards the traffic to all leaf devices.

5. Leaf 2 receives the multicast traffic, but does not forward it to the receiver because the receiver sent

an IGMP leave message. Figure 19: Multicast with IGMP Snooping In EVPN-VXLAN networks only IGMP version 2 is supported. For more information about IGMP snooping, see Overview of Multicast Forwarding with IGMP Snooping or MLD Snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment.

Selective Multicast Forwarding

Selective multicast Ethernet (SMET) forwarding provides greater end-to-end network efficiency and reduces traffic in the EVPN network. It conserves bandwidth usage in the core of the fabric and reduces the load on egress devices that do not have listeners. Devices with IGMP snooping enabled use selective multicast forwarding to forward multicast traffic in an efficient way. With IGMP snooping enabled a leaf device sends multicast traffic only to the access

38 interface with an interested receiver. With SMET added, the leaf device selectively sends multicast traffic to only the leaf devices in the core that have expressed an interest in that multicast group. Figure 20 on page 38 shows the SMET traffic flow along with IGMP snooping.

1. Multicast Receiver 2 sends an IGMPv2 leave request.

2. Multicast Receivers 3 and 4 send an IGMPv2 join request.

3. When leaf 1 receives ingress multicast traffic, it replicates the traffic only to leaf devices with

interested receivers (leaf devices 3 and 4), and forwards it to the spine.

4. The spine forwards the traffic to leaf devices 3 and 4.

Figure 20: Selective Multicast Forwarding with IGMP Snooping

You do not need to enable SMET; it is enabled by default when IGMP snooping is configured on the device. For more information about SMET, see Overview of Selective Multicast Forwarding.

Assisted Replication of Multicast Traffic

The assisted replication (AR) feature offloads EVPN-VXLAN fabric leaf devices from ingress replication tasks. The ingress leaf does not replicate multicast traffic. It sends one copy of the multicast traffic to a spine that is configured as an AR replicator device. The AR replicator device distributes and controls

39 multicast traffic. In addition to reducing the replication load on the ingress leaf devices, this method conserves bandwidth in the fabric between the leaf and the spine. Figure 21 on page 39 shows how AR works along with IGMP snooping and SMET.

1. Leaf 1, which is set up as the AR leaf device, receives multicast traffic and sends one copy to the

spine that is set up as the AR replicator device.

2. The spine replicates the multicast traffic. It replicates traffic for leaf devices that are provisioned with

the VLAN VNI in which the multicast traffic originated from Leaf 1. Because we have IGMP snooping and SMET configured in the network, the spine sends the multicast traffic only to leaf devices with interested receivers. Figure 21: Multicast with AR, IGMP Snooping, and SMET In this document, we show multicast optimizations on a small scale. In a full-scale network with many spines and leafs, the benefits of the optimizations are much more apparent.

Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks

When you have multicast sources and receivers both inside and outside an ERB overlay fabric, you can configure optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) to enable efficient multicast traffic flow at scale. OISM uses a local routing model for multicast traffic, which avoids traffic hairpinning and minimizes the traffic load within the EVPN core. OISM forwards multicast traffic only on the multicast source VLAN.

40 For intersubnet receivers, the leaf devices use IRB interfaces to locally route the traffic received on the source VLAN to other receiver VLANs on the same device. To further optimize multicast traffic flow in the EVPN-VXLAN fabric, OISM uses IGMP snooping and SMET to forward traffic in the fabric only to leaf devices with interested receivers. OISM also enables the fabric to effectively route traffic from external multicast sources to internal receivers, and from internal multicast sources to external receivers. OISM uses a supplemental bridge domain (SBD) within the fabric to forward multicast traffic received on the border leaf devices from outside sources. The SBD design preserves the local routing model for externally-sourced traffic. You can use OISM with AR to reduce the replication load on lower-capacity OISM leaf devices. (See "Assisted Replication of Multicast Traffic" on page 38.) See Figure 22 on page 41 for a simple fabric with OISM and AR.

41 Figure 22: OISM with AR Figure 22 on page 41 shows OISM server leaf and border leaf devices, Spine 1 in the AR replicator role, and Server Leaf 1 as a multicast source in the AR leaf role. An external source and receivers might also exist in the external PIM domain. OISM and AR work together in this scenario as follows:

1. Multicast receivers behind Server Leaf 3 on VLAN 1 and behind Server Leaf 4 on VLAN 2 send IGMP

Joins showing interested in the multicast group. External receivers might also join the multicast group.

2. The multicast source behind Server Leaf 1 sends multicast traffic for the group into the fabric on

VLAN 1. Server Leaf 1 sends only one copy of the traffic to the AR replicator on Spine 1.

3. Also, external source traffic for the multicast group arrives at Border Leaf 1. Border Leaf 1 forwards

the traffic on the SBD to Spine 1, the AR replicator.

42

4. The AR replicator sends copies from the internal source on the source VLAN and from the external

source on the SBD to the OISM leaf devices with interested receivers.

5. The server leaf devices forward the traffic to the receivers on the source VLAN, and locally route the

traffic to the receivers on the other VLANs.

Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN

When virtual machines and hosts are moved within a data center or from one data center to another, network traffic can become inefficient if the traffic is not routed to the optimal gateway. This can happen when a host is relocated. The ARP table does not always get flushed and data flow to the host is sent to the configured gateway even when there is a more optimal gateway. The traffic is “tromboned” and routed unnecessarily to the configured gateway. Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) provides greater network efficiency and optimizes ingress traffic and can eliminate the trombone effect between VLANs. When you enable ingress VMTO, routes are stored in a Layer 3 virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) table and the device routes inbound traffic directly back to host that was relocated. Figure 23 on page 43 shows tromboned traffic without ingress VMTO and optimized traffic with ingress VMTO enabled.

• Without ingress VMTO, Spine 1 and 2 from DC1 and DC2 all advertise the remote IP host route

10.0.0.1 when the origin route is from DC2. The ingress traffic can be directed to either Spine 1 and 2 in DC1. It is then routed to Spine 1 and 2 in DC2 where route 10.0.0.1 was moved. This causes the tromboning effect.

• With ingress VMTO, we can achieve optimal forwarding path by configuring a policy for IP host route

(10.0.01) to only be advertised by Spine 1 and 2 from DC2, and not from DC1 when the IP host is moved to DC2.

43 Figure 23: Traffic with and without Ingress VMTO For information about configuring VMTO, see "Configuring VMTO" on page 723.

44

DHCP Relay

Figure 24: DHCP Relay in a CRB Overlay The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) relay building block allows the network to pass DHCP messages between a DHCP client and a DHCP server. The DHCP relay implementation in this building block moves DHCP packets through a CRB overlay where the gateway is located at the spine layer. The DHCP server and the DHCP clients connect into the network using access interfaces on leaf devices. The DHCP server and clients can communicate with each other over the existing network without further configuration when the DHCP client and server are in the same VLAN. When a DHCP client and server are in different VLANs, DHCP traffic between the client and server is forwarded between the VLANs via the IRB interfaces on spine devices. You must configure the IRB interfaces on the spine devices to support DHCP relay between VLANs. For information about implementing the DHCP relay, see "DHCP Relay Design and Implementation" on page 724.

45 Reducing ARP Traffic with ARP Synchronization and Suppression (Proxy

ARP)

The goal of ARP synchronization is to synchronize ARP tables across all the VRFs that serve an overlay subnet to reduce the amount of traffic and optimize processing for both network devices and end systems. When an IP gateway for a subnet learns about an ARP binding, it shares it with other gateways so they do not need to discover the same ARP binding independently. With ARP suppression, when a leaf device receives an ARP request, it checks its own ARP table that is synchronized with the other VTEP devices and responds to the request locally rather than flooding the ARP request. Proxy ARP and ARP suppression are enabled by default on all QFX Series switches that can act as leaf devices in an ERB overlay. For a list of these switches, see "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51. IRB interfaces on the leaf device deliver ARP requests and NDP requests from both local and remote leaf devices. When a leaf device receives an ARP request or NDP request from another leaf device, the receiving device searches its MAC+IP address bindings database for the requested IP address.

• If the device finds the MAC+IP address binding in its database, it responds to the request.

• If the device does not find the MAC+IP address binding, it floods the ARP request to all Ethernet

links in the VLAN and the associated VTEPs. Because all participating leaf devices add the ARP entries and synchronize their routing and bridging tables, local leaf devices respond directly to requests from locally connected hosts and remove the need for remote devices to respond to these ARP requests. For information about implementing the ARP synchronization, Proxy ARP, and ARP suppression, see Enabling Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay. Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems CRB and ERB overlays support the security features on Layer 2 Ethernet-connected end systems that we describe in the next sections. For more information about these features, see MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring Support in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment. For information about configuring these features, see "Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems" on page 734.

46

Preventing BUM Traffic Storms With Storm Control

Storm control can prevent excessive traffic from degrading the network. It lessens the impact of BUM traffic storms by monitoring traffic levels on EVPN-VXLAN interfaces, and dropping BUM traffic when a specified traffic level is exceeded. In an EVPN-VXLAN environment, storm control monitors:

• Layer 2 BUM traffic that originates in a VXLAN and is forwarded to interfaces within the same

VXLAN.

• Layer 3 multicast traffic that is received by an IRB interface in a VXLAN and is forwarded to

interfaces in another VXLAN.

Using MAC Filtering to Enhance Port Security

MAC filtering enhances port security by limiting the number of MAC addresses that can be learned within a VLAN and therefore limit the traffic in a VXLAN. Limiting the number of MAC addresses protects the switch from flooding the Ethernet switching table. Flooding of the Ethernet switching table occurs when the number of new MAC addresses that are learned causes the table to overflow, and previously learned MAC addresses are flushed from the table. The switch relearns the MAC addresses, which can impact performance and introduce security vulnerabilities. In this blueprint, MAC filtering limits the number of accepted packets that are sent to ingress-facing access interfaces based on MAC addresses. For more information about how MAC filtering works, see the MAC limiting information in Understanding MAC Limiting and MAC Move Limiting.

Analyzing Traffic Using Port Mirroring

With analyzer-based port mirroring, you can analyze traffic down to the packet level in an EVPN-VXLAN environment. You can use this feature to enforce policies related to network usage and file sharing and to identify problem sources by locating abnormal or heavy bandwidth usage by particular stations or applications. Port mirroring copies packets entering or exiting a port or entering a VLAN and sends the copies to a local interface for local monitoring or to a VLAN for remote monitoring. Use port mirroring to send traffic to applications that analyze traffic for purposes such as monitoring compliance, enforcing policies, detecting intrusions, monitoring and predicting traffic patterns, correlating events, and so on.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Infrastructure as a Service: EVPN and VXLAN Solution Guide Juniper Networks EVPN Implementation for Next-Generation Data Center Architectures

2

CHAPTER

Data Center Fabric Reference Design

—Tested Implementation

IN THIS CHAPTER

Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49

IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81

Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97

BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with EVPN-VXLAN

Implementation | 104 IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP | 114 BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center | 123 Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142 Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 172 Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 229 Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236 Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation |

281 Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation | 285 Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation | 315 EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation | 353 Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes | 361

```text
Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN | 387
Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 391
EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching | 430
Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching Through Interconnected
EVPN-MPLS WAN Gateways | 477
Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q | 486
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels | 501
Service Chaining Design and Implementation | 508
Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation | 523
Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation | 533
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays | 546
Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) Implementation | 613
Configure VMTO | 723
DHCP Relay Design and Implementation | 724
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlay | 730
Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End
Systems | 734
```

49

Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and

Validated Topology

IN THIS SECTION

Reference Design Overview | 49

Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary | 51 Interfaces Summary | 79 This section provides a high-level overview of the Data Center Fabric reference design topology and summarizes the topologies that were tested and validated by the Juniper Networks Test Team. NOTE: Contact your local account manager for details on the tested scale for all supported features.

Reference Design Overview

The Data Center Fabric reference design tested by Juniper Networks is based on an IP Fabric underlay in a Clos topology that uses the following devices:

• Spine devices: up to four.

• Leaf devices: the number of leaf devices supported by Juniper Networks varies depending on the

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved software release and overlay type (centrally-routed bridging overlay or edge-routed bridging overlay). The number of tested leaf nodes reflected throughout this guide is 96, which was number tested in the initial reference design. Each leaf device is interconnected to each spine device using either an aggregated Ethernet interface that includes two high-speed Ethernet interfaces (10-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps) as LAG members or a single high-speed Ethernet interface. Figure 25 on page 50 provides an illustration of the topology used in this reference design:

50

Figure 25: Data Center Fabric Reference Design - Topology

End systems such as servers connect to the data center network through leaf device interfaces. Each end system was multihomed to three leaf devices using a 3-member aggregated Ethernet interface as shown in Figure 26 on page 51.

51

Figure 26: Data Center Fabric Reference Design - Multihoming

The objective for multihoming end systems to 3 different leaf devices is to verify that multihoming of an end system to more than 2 leaf devices is fully supported.

Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported

Hardware Summary

Table 2 on page 52 provides a summary of the hardware that you can use to create the reference designs described in this guide. The table is organized by use cases, roles that devices play in each use case, and the hardware supported for each role.

NOTE:

• For each use case, we support the hardware listed in Table 2 on page 52 only with

the associated Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved software releases.

• To learn about any existing issues and limitations for a hardware device in this

reference design, see the release notes for the Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved software release with which the device was tested.

52 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary

Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay

Spine 17.3R3-S1

19.1R2

23.2R2-EVO

Server leaf 17.3R3-S1

18.1R3-S3

18.4R2

19.1R2

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016 MX Series

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C

PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

QFX5100 QFX5110 QFX5200 QFX10002-36Q/72Q

QFX5210-64C

QFX5120-48Y

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C

53 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX5120-48T

QFX5120-48YM4

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

54 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

55 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX10002-60C2

QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

56 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y

57 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

58 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008 |  |
|  | QFX10002-60C2 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-60C3 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |

59 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5110 QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48Y QFX5200 QFX5210-64C QFX5220-32CD QFX5220-128C QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | ACX7024 |  |

60 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX5200 QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110 QFX5210-64C

QFX5120-48Y

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C

QFX5220-32CD QFX5220-128C

QFX5120-48YM

ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

ACX7024

61 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5120-48YM

ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX10002-60C

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y

QFX5120-32C

QFX5120-48T

QFX5120-48YM

62 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | ACX7024 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L |  |

63 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5110 QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y |  |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |

64 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX5110

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008 QFX5120-48Y2

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX5120-48T2 QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

65 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008 QFX5120-48Y2

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX5120-48T2 QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008

ACX7024

66 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y2

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX10002-60C2

QFX5120-48T2 QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

67 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | ACX7024 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L |  |

68 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10008

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y2

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C

QFX5120-48T2 QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

69 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

QFX5120-48Y2

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C

QFX5120-48T2 QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

QFX5130-32CD QFX5700

70 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

Device Roles

Hardware4

Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1

ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008

ACX7024

QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016

QFX5110

MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008

QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-60C3

QFX5120-48YM

71 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

72 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |

73 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX5120-48YM QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |

74 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | MX204 MX240,MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008 QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX5120-48YM QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | MX Series |  |

75 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | ACX7024 ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10008 |  |
|  | QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y |  |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y |  |

76 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | QFX5110 QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48Y QFX5200 QFX5210-64C QFX5220-32CD QFX5220-128C QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | ACX7024 |  |

77 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued) Collapsed spine Leaf with Virtual Chassis QFX5100 20.2R2

QFX5110

QFX5120

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q QFX10002-60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |

78 Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued) 1 This column includes the initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release train with which we introduce support for the hardware in the reference design. For each initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release

| Device Roles | Hardware4 | Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved (EVO) Software Releases1 |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | MX204 MX240, MX480, and MX960 with MPC7E MX10003 MX10008 QFX5110 QFX5120-32C QFX5120-48T QFX5120-48Y QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C QFX10008 QFX10016 |  |
|  | QFX5120-48YM |  |
|  | QFX5130-32CD QFX5700 |  |
|  | ACX7100-32C ACX7100-48L PTX10001 PTX10004 PTX10008 |  |
|  | ACX7024 |  |

79 train, we also support the hardware with later releases in the same release train. Although we list the initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release train here, we recommend that you use the most recent hardened releases that are listed on the following page: Data Center Architectures Hardened Release Information for EVPN/VXLAN. 2 While functioning in this role, this hardware does not support centrally routed multicast. 3 While functioning in this role, the QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast traffic. However, this switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q switches. 4 For multicast support, consult the Pathfinder Feature Explorer application for multicast features and the releases that support the feature on each platform. 5 For devices in the border spine role, set a larger value for Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) timers in the overlay—4 seconds or higher, with a multiplier of 3. These settings help avoid potential flapping of the spine-to-leaf connection due to BFD control timer expiration. This table does not include backbone devices that connect the data center to a WAN cloud. Backbone devices provide physical connectivity between data centers and are required for DCI. See "Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes " on page 361.

Interfaces Summary

This section summarizes the interface connections between spine and leaf devices that were validated in this reference design. It contains the following sections:

Interfaces Overview

In the validated reference design, spine and leaf devices are interconnected using either an aggregated Ethernet interface that includes two high-speed Ethernet interfaces or a single high-speed Ethernet interface. The reference design was validated with the following combinations of spine and leaf device interconnections:

• See Table 2 on page 52 for the interconnected platforms tested in spine and leaf device roles as of

the indicated Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved hardening releases. We use 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps interfaces on the supported platforms to interconnect spine and leaf devices. Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2, we also use 400-Gbps interfaces to interconnect leaf and spine devices that support this speed.

80

• We validated combinations of aggregated Ethernet interfaces containing two 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-

Gbps, 100-Gbps, and 400-Gbps member interfaces between the supported platforms.

• We validated channelized 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps interfaces used to interconnect

spine and leaf devices as single links or as member links in a 2-member aggregated Ethernet bundle.

Spine Device Interface Summary

As previously stated, the validated design includes up to 4 spine devices and leaf devices that are interconnected by one or two high-speed Ethernet interfaces. QFX10008 and QFX10016 switches were used as they can achieve the port density necessary for this reference design. See QFX10008 Hardware Overview or QFX10016 Hardware Overview for information on supported line cards and the number of high-speed Ethernet interfaces supported on these switches. QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10002-60C, and QFX5120-32C switches, however, do not have the port density to support this reference design at the larger scales but can be deployed as spine devices in smaller scale environments. See QFX10002 Hardware Overview and QFX5120 System Overview for information about the number of high-speed Ethernet interfaces supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10002-60C, and QFX5120-32C switches, respectively. All channelized spine device interface options are tested and supported in the validated reference design.

Leaf Device Interface Summary

Each leaf device in the reference design connects to the four spine devices and has the port density to support this reference design. The number and types of high-speed Ethernet interfaces used as uplink interfaces to spine devices vary by leaf device switch model. To see which high-speed interfaces are available with each leaf device switch model, see the following documents:

• QFX5200 Switch Description

• QFX5100 Device Hardware Overview

• QFX5110 Hardware Overview

• QFX5120 System Overview

• QFX5210 System Overview

• QFX5220 System Overview

81

• QFX10002 Switch Description

• QFX10008 System Overview

• QFX10016 System Overview

• MX Series Routers

• QFX5130 System Overview

• QFX5700 System Overview

• PTX10001-36MR System Overview

• PTX10004 System Overview

• PTX10008 System Overview

• ACX7024 and ACX7024X System Overview

• ACX7100-32C System Overview

• ACX7100-48L System Overview

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and

Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices | 84 Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link | 89 Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network | 90

Enabling Load Balancing | 93

82 Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links in Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces | 94

IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History | 96

For an overview of the supported IP fabric underlay models and components used in these designs, see the IP Fabric Underlay Network section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. This section explains how to configure spine and leaf devices in 3-stage and 5-stage IPv4 fabric underlays. For information about how to configure the additional tier of super spine devices in a 5-stage IP fabric underlay, see "Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation" on page 285. For the steps to configure an IPv6 Fabric design in reference architectures that support that configuration, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead. The IP underlay network building block is arranged in a Clos-based fabric topology. The underlay network uses EBGP as the routing protocol in place of a traditional IGP like OSPF. You can use other routing protocols in the underlay protocol in your data center; the usage of those routing protocols is beyond the scope of this document. Aggregated Ethernet interfaces with MicroBFD are also used in this building block. MicroBFD improves fault detection in an aggregated Ethernet interface by running BFD on individual links of the aggregated Ethernet interface. Figure 27 on page 83 and Figure 28 on page 84 provide high-level illustrations of a 3-stage and 5stage IP fabric underlay networks, respectively.

83

Figure 27: Three-Stage IP Fabric Underlay Network

84

Figure 28: Five-Stage IP Fabric Underlay Network

Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine

Devices to Leaf Devices

In this design each spine device is interconnected to each leaf device using a single link or a twomember aggregated Ethernet interface. The decision to use a single link or an aggregated Ethernet interface largely depends on the needs of your network; see "Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology" on page 49 for more information on interface requirements. The majority of IP Fabric topologies do not use aggregated Ethernet interfaces to interconnect spine and leaf devices. You can skip this section if you are connecting your spine and leaf devices using single links. Use the following instructions to configure the interfaces that interconnect spine and leaf devices as aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two member links. An IPv4 address is assigned to each aggregated Ethernet interface. LACP with a fast periodic interval is also enabled.

85 Figure 29 on page 85 shows the spine device interfaces that are configured in this procedure: Figure 29: Spine 1 Interfaces Figure 30 on page 85 shows the leaf device interfaces that are configured in this procedure: Figure 30: Leaf 1 Interfaces To configure aggregated Ethernet interfaces with fast LACP:

86

1. Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces permitted on the device.

We recommend setting this number to the exact number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on your device, including aggregated Ethernet interfaces that are not used for spine to leaf device connections. In this example, the aggregated Ethernet device count value is set at 10 for a leaf device and 100 for a spine device.

Leaf Device:

Spine Device:

2. Create and name the aggregated Ethernet interfaces, and optionally assign a description to each

interface. This step shows how to create three aggregated Ethernet interfaces on spine 1 and four aggregated ethernet interfaces on leaf 1. Repeat this procedure for every aggregated Ethernet interface connecting a spine device to a leaf device. Spine 1: Leaf 1:

3. Assign interfaces to each aggregated Ethernet interface on your device.

87 Spine 1: Leaf 1:

4. Assign an IP address to each aggregated Ethernet interface on the device.

Spine 1: Leaf 1:

5. Enable fast LACP on every aggregated Ethernet interface on the device.

LACP is enabled using the fast periodic interval, which configures LACP to send a packet every second.

88 Spine 1: Leaf 1:

6. After the configuration is committed, confirm that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are enabled,

that the physical links are up, and that packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent. The output below provides this confirmation information for ae1 on Spine 1.

7. Confirm the LACP receive state is Current and that the transmit state is Fast for each link in each

aggregated Ethernet interface bundle.

89 The output below provides LACP status for interface ae1.

8. Repeat this procedure for every device in your topology.

The guide presumes that spine and leaf devices are interconnected by two-member aggregated Ethernet interfaces in other sections. When you are configuring or monitoring a single link instead of an aggregated Ethernet link, substitute the physical interface name of the single link interface in place of the aggregated Ethernet interface name. Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link This section covers the procedure to add an IP address to a single link interface connecting a spine or leaf device. The process for adding an IP address to an aggregated Ethernet interface is covered in "Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices" on page 84. To add an IP address to a single link interface:

1. Assign an IP address to each interface.

Spine 1 Example: Leaf 1 Example:

90

2. After the interface configuration is committed, confirm that the interfaces are enabled, that the

physical links are up, and that packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent. The output below provides this confirmation information for et-0/0/64 on Spine 1. Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network In this design, EBGP is the routing protocol of the underlay network and each device in the IP fabric is assigned a unique 32-bit autonomous system number (ASN). The underlay routing configuration ensures that all devices in the underlay IP fabric are reliably reachable from one another. Reachability between VTEP across the underlay IP Fabric is also required to support overlay networking with VXLAN. Figure 31 on page 91 shows the EBGP configuration of the underlay network.

91

Figure 31: EBGP Underlay Network Overview

To enable EBGP as the routing protocol for the underlay network on a device:

1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.

The underlay EBGP group is named UNDERLAY in this design.

Spine or Leaf Device:

2. Configure the ASN for each device in the underlay.

Recall that in this design, every device is assigned a unique ASN in the underlay network. The ASN for EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using the local-as statement because the system ASN setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the overlay network. The examples below show how to configure the ASN for EBGP for Spine 1 and Leaf 1. Spine 1: Leaf 1:

92

3. Configure BGP peers by specifying the ASN of each BGP peer in the underlay network on each spine

and leaf device. In this design, for a spine device, every leaf device is a BGP peer, and for a leaf device, every spine device is a BGP peer. The example below demonstrates how to configure the peer ASN in this design. Spine 1: Leaf 1:

4. Set the BGP hold time. The BGP hold time is the length of time, in seconds, that a peer waits for a

BGP message—typically a keepalive, update, or notification message—before closing a BGP connection. Shorter BGP hold time values guard against BGP sessions staying open for unnecessarily long times in scenarios where problems occur, such as keepalives not being sent. A longer BGP hold time ensures BGP sessions remain active even during problem periods. The BGP hold time is configured at 10 seconds for every device in this design.

Spine or Leaf Device:

5. Configure EBGP to signal the unicast address family for the underlay BGP peer group.

Spine or Leaf Device:

6. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IP address of the loopback interface to EBGP

peering devices.

93 This export routing policy is used to make the IP address of the loopback interface reachable from all devices in the IP Fabric. Loopback IP address reachability is required to allow leaf and spine device peering using MP-IBGP in the overlay network. IBGP peering in the overlay network must be established to allow devices in the fabric to share EVPN routes. See "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. The route filter IP address in this step—192.168.1.10—is the loopback address of the leaf device. Leaf 1:

7. After committing the configuration, enter the show bgp summary command on each device to

confirm that the BGP state is established and that traffic paths are active. Issue the show bgp summary command on Spine 1 to verify EBGP status.

8. Repeat this procedure for every spine and leaf device in your topology.

Enabling Load Balancing

ECMP load balancing allows traffic to be sent to the same destination over multiple equal cost paths. Load balancing must be enabled on all spine and leaf devices to ensure that traffic is sent over all available paths provided by the IP Fabric.

94 Traffic is load balanced per Layer 4 flow on Junos devices. The ECMP algorithm load balances each traffic flow over one of the multiple paths, and all traffic for that flow is transmitted using the selected link. To enable ECMP-based load balancing on a device:

1. Enable multipath with the multiple AS option in BGP on all devices in the IP Fabric.

EBGP, by default, selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table. When BGP multipath is enabled, all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the forwarding table. The multiple-as option enables load balancing between EBGP neighbors in different autonomous systems.

All Spine and Leaf Devices:

2. Create a policy statement that enables per-packet load balancing.

All Spine and Leaf Devices:

3. Export the policy statement to the forwarding table.

All Spine and Leaf Devices:

Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links

in Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces

BFD is a simple bidirectional fault detection protocol that verifies bidirectional connectivity between directly-connected devices by periodically and rapidly sending a simple hello packet over the link or links that interconnect the devices. BFD can detect and communicate link faults in sub-second time frames to allow the control-plane software to quickly switch to an alternate path. MicroBFD allows BFD to run on individual member links in an aggregated Ethernet interface. In this design, microBFD is supported on connections between QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and QFX10016 switches. To enable microBFD:

95

1. Set the minimum interval for BFD.

The minimum interval is the amount of time in milliseconds between hello packets BFD sends to a directly connected neighbor. It is also the basis for the amount of time that BFD waits to receive a response to hello packets before directing traffic destined to that link to other member links in the aggregated Ethernet interface. The actual wait time factors in a multiplier that represents the number of hello packet intervals that go by without a response before BFD declares the peer to be down. You can customize the multiplier value, or by default BFD waits 3 times the minimum interval before redirecting traffic away from the unresponsive neighbor. This design sets the minimum interval to 100 milliseconds on all member links and uses the default multiplier value (3). If the minimum interval is set to 100, for example, BFD sends a hello packet every 100 milliseconds and starts directing traffic to other member links in an aggregated Ethernet interface if the hello packet does not receive a response in 300 milliseconds. Set the minimum interval to a lower value if you want to ensure traffic is quickly redirected after a link failure. Set the minimum interval to a higher value if you want to minimize the chance that BFD accidentally misidentifies an active link as a down link. The output below shows how to configure the minimum interval to 100 milliseconds on aggregated Ethernet interface 1.

Spine and Leaf Device:

2. Configure the IP address used by MicroBFD over the aggregated Ethernet bundle. For bridged AE

interfaces, this address should be the IP address used by MicroBFD over the aggregated Ethernet bundle. The output below show how to assign the loopback IP address to ae1 on the leaf device.

Spine and Leaf Device:

3. Specify the loopback IP address of the neighbor device on the other end of the aggregated Ethernet

interface. The output below is from aggregated Ethernet interface 1 on leaf device 1, which is used to connect to spine device 1. Spine device 1 uses 192.168.0.1 as it’s loopback IP address.

96

Spine and Leaf Device:

4. Specify the minimum number of links that have to remain up before all links in the aggregated

Ethernet interface stop sending and receiving traffic. Setting the minimum links to 1 ensures the aggregated Ethernet bundle always transmits traffic unless all links in the aggregated Ethernet interface are unable to forward or receive traffic. Consider setting the minimum links value to a higher number if you feel performance could be significantly degraded in your network if a number of member links in your aggregated Ethernet interface stopped forwarding traffic. All devices in the design set the minimum links value to 1.

Spine and Leaf Device:

Repeat the above steps for each aggregated Ethernet interface in your topology to enable microBFD.

5. To verify BFD sessions after enabling microBFD, enter the show bfd session command:

Leaf 10 Example:

IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History

Table 3 on page 97 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

97

Table 3: IP Fabric Underlay Network Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section except the following:

• MicroBFD, which is supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and QFX10016 switches

only. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section except MicroBFD. 18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section except MicroBFD. 17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section. The following is an exception:

• MicroBFD, which is supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and QFX10016 switches

only.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Software as a Service

Understanding Independent Micro BFD Sessions for LAG

Configure IBGP for the Overlay For a control-plane driven overlay, there must be a signalling path between the VXLAN virtual tunnel endpoint (VTEP) devices. In this reference design with an IPv4 Fabric underlay, all overlay types use IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP) to maintain the signalling path between the VTEPs within an autonomous system. The spine devices act as a route reflector cluster, and the leaf devices are route reflector clients, as shown in Figure 32 on page 98.

98

Figure 32: IBGP Route Reflector Cluster

To configure an EVPN-VXLAN data center fabric architecture with an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead of this procedure. In an IPv6 Fabric configuration, we use EBGP and IPv6 for underlay connectivity, as well as EBGP and IPv6 for peering and EVPN signalling in the overlay. With an IPv6 Fabric, the VTEPs encapsulate the VXLAN packets with an IPv6 outer header and tunnel the packets using IPv6. You can use either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric in your data center architecture. You can’t mix IPv4 Fabric and IPv6 Fabric elements in the same architecture. To configure IBGP for the overlay peering in an IPv4 Fabric, perform the following:

1. Configure an AS number for overlay IBGP. All leaf and spine devices participating in the overlay use

the same AS number. In this example, the AS number is private AS 4210000001.

Spine and Leaf Devices:

2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on each spine device to peer with every leaf device (Leaf 1

through Leaf 96). Also, form the route reflector cluster (cluster ID 192.168.0.10) and configure equal cost multipath (ECMP) for BGP. The configuration included here belongs to Spine 1, as shown in Figure 33 on page 99.

99

Figure 33: IBGP – Spine Device

TIP: By default, BGP selects only one best path when there are multiple, equal-cost BGP paths to a destination. When you enable BGP multipath by including the multipath statement at the [edit protocols bgp group group-name] hierarchy level, the device installs all of the equal-cost BGP paths into the forwarding table. This feature helps load balance the traffic across multiple paths. Spine 1:

100

3. Configure IBGP on the spine devices to peer with all the other spine devices acting as route

reflectors. This step completes the full mesh peering topology required to form a route reflector cluster. Spine 1:

4. Configure BFD on all BGP groups on the spine devices to enable rapid detection of failures and

reconvergence. Spine 1:

5. Configure IBGP with EVPN signaling from each leaf device (route reflector client) to each spine

device (route reflector cluster). The configuration included here belongs to Leaf 1, as shown in Figure 34 on page 101.

101

Figure 34: IBGP – Leaf Device

Leaf 1:

6. Configure BFD on the leaf devices to enable rapid detection of failures and reconvergence.

NOTE: QFX5100 switches only support BFD liveness detection minimum intervals of 1 second or longer. The configuration here has a minimum interval of 350 ms, which is supported on devices other than QFX5100 switches.

102 Leaf 1:

7. Verify that IBGP is functional on the spine devices.

8. Verify that BFD is operational on the spine devices.

103

9. Verify that IBGP is operational on the leaf devices.

10. Verify that BFD is operational on the leaf devices.

104

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Understanding BGP Route Reflectors

BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with

EVPN-VXLAN Implementation

Overview

You can use BGP deterministic path forwarding (DPF) to segment a physical network into multiple logical fabrics by assigning fabric colors to BGP sessions. This document provides example spine and leaf device configurations for an IP fabric using BGP DPF with EVPN-VXLAN. It includes device configuration and verification steps as well as general BGP DPF configuration guidance. BGP-DPF implements color-based routing, which enables you to advertise routes across different colored paths. By configuring fabric colors at the global, group, or neighbor levels you can control which routes are advertised over specific paths. Integrating DPF with EVPN-VXLAN enables more precise control of traffic flows by utilizing colored routes as underlays. This enables traffic segregation at the MAC-VRF level, ensuring that virtualized environments can benefit from isolated and efficient traffic flows. This control over path selection ensures that the network can meet diverse requirements, such as latency sensitivity and redundancy. In addition to assigning colors for the primary paths, you can set up backup paths for resilience, which ensures seamless failover if the primary path becomes unavailable.

105 You can use the protocols bgp fabric-advertise route destination statement to advertise colored IPv4 and IPv6 routes. This configuration advertises these routes automatically based on the color configurations without needing an export policy. If a route is configured with the color option, the route is advertised over the EBGP neighbors of the same color and the color community is added to the route. Routes with no color configured are advertised to all EBGP peers. Configuring a backup color using the backup-color option advertises the route over the EBGP neighbors of the backup color. It also adds the backup color community to the route advertised over the backup fabric. When the backup-color option is configured, an accumulated IGP (AIGP) metric of 0 is added to the route advertised over the primary colored fabric to ensure the primary colored fabric is preferred by upstream routers. You can configure a colored tunnel endpoint for an EVPN MAC-VRF with the routing-instances name vtepsource-interface inet colored-tunnel-address destination statement. This sets the EVPN routes with the colored-tunnel-address as the protocol next hop (PNH). BGP then advertises these EVPN routes with the specified PNH. When the ingress PE receives the EVPN route, it uses the PNH to resolve the route over the desired colored tunnel endpoint. Therefore different colored tunnel addresses must be configured for MAC-VRFs of different colored fabrics. They cannot share the same virtual tunnel endpoint (VTEP) address. You can configure a tenant MAC-VRF or an EVPN Type 5 (RT-5) instance without any colored fabric configurations. In these instances, the routes have no color configuration and are advertised to all EBGP peers. These instances can use all spine devices and dynamic load balancing (DLB) to optimize network performance.

DPF Configuration Guidelines and Caveats

When configuring DPF, keep these guidelines and caveats in mind:

• You configure the colors for BGP neighbors using BGP extended communities. These configurations

must be consistent across the entire physical fabric. For example, if the BGP extended community color:0:1 represents "Blue" on one router, it must represent "Blue" on all other routers in the same physical fabric.

• When you configure fabric-advertise statements and an export policy on the same router, the export

policy should not modify the color communities that the fabric-advertise statements specify. Also, the export policy should not originate the AIGP metric for a fabric-advertise route because color-based routing uses the AIGP metric to indicate the primary color when primary and backup colors are configured.

• BGP advertises all colored routes over uncolored BGP neighbors. When you want to restrict certain

routes to specific colors, do not mix uncolored fabrics and colored fabrics.

106

• BGP advertises uncolored routes across all colored fabrics. If you want to allow only matching

colored routes over a specific colored fabric, you should avoid using uncolored routes, with the exception of those that solely carry light control traffic.

• A colored BGP receiver will accept uncolored routes and routes matching its color, but routes with a

different color are marked as hidden.

• When deploying EVPN VXLAN with DPF, the overlay multihop EBGP peers between leaf devices

remain uncolored. Configure these BGP peers with only family evpn signaling. Do not enable family inet or family inet6 on these peers because that configuration allows the advertisement of colored routes over uncolored multihop EBGP sessions. Aside from EVPN VXLAN overlay BGP sessions, do not configure any additional uncolored multihop EBGP or IBGP peers with colored fabrics. Otherwise, you risk advertising colored routes over these uncolored multihop EBGP or IBGP peers.

• Egress Link Protection (ELP) and Assisted Replication features are not supported when BGP DPF is

used with EVPN-VXLAN. The following sections explain how to configure spine and leaf devices for a DPF colored fabric. The configurations in this example are focused on configuring BGP DPF. The configuration examples included here do not provide all the configurations necessary to implement an IP fabric underlay. These configurations implement color-based BGP communities and fabric color assignments to enable colorbased traffic engineering and service-level path selection. This enables different traffic types to be routed through designated network paths based on their color assignments. For information about how to configure IP fabric underlays see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

Topology Requirements

This example uses the following hardware and software components:

• A QFX5120 that functions as the super spine and route reflector.

• Two QFX5120s, three QFX5130s and a QFX5700 that function as spine devices.

• Three QFX5120s and a QFX5130 that functions as leaf devices.

• All devices are running Junos OS 25.4R1.

• Please refer to BGP support for deterministic path forwarding (DPF) in a CLOS network for a

complete list of the products that support this feature.

107

Topology

In this example, we have a route reflector connected to six spine devices each configured with one of three different fabric colors. The user can choose to load balance the traffic between leaf devices by using different colored spines. The leaf devices are connected to several server devices as multihomed peers. This example depicts three colored fabrics, (Blue, Red, and Green), and an uncolored fabric connected to servers S4 and S8. The configuration examples that follow do not include the configurations for the uncolored fabric. Because uncolored routes are advertised to all EBGP peers, the instances on servers S4 and S8 can use all the spines and DLB load balancing.

Figure 35: Colored Fabric Topology

Topology overview:

• The super spine is connected to six colored spine devices.

• Each spine is configured with a color (Blue/Red/Green) to divide the physical fabric into multiple

logical fabrics.

108

• Spine 1, Spine 2, and Spine 3 are connected to Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 via the colored BGP underlay.

• Spine 4, Spine 5, and Spine 6 are connected to Leaf 3 and Leaf 4 via the colored BGP underlay.

• Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 are multihomed peers connected to servers S1 through S4.

• Leaf 3 and Leaf 4 are multihomed peers connected to servers S5 through S8.

In addition to the configurations shown in Figure 35 on page 107 the leaf devices each have multiple loopback interfaces configured for use with VTEP interfaces.

Table 4: Leaf Device Loopback Interfaces

| Leaf Device | Loopback Address | Purpose |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Leaf 1 | 192.168.0.1 | Primary |
|  | 192.168.4.1 | ep-type-2 MAC-VRF |
|  | 192.168.10.1 | ep-type-5 L3 VRF |
| Leaf 2 | 192.168.0.2 | Primary |
|  | 192.168.4.2 | ep-type-2 MAC-VRF |
|  | 192.168.10.2 | ep-type-5 L3 VRF |
| Leaf 3 | 192.168.0.5 | Primary |
|  | 192.168.4.5 | ep-type-2 MAC-VRF |
|  | 192.168.10.5 | ep-type-5 L3 VRF |
| Leaf 4 | 192.168.0.6 | Primary |
|  | 192.168.4.6 | ep-type-2 MAC-VRF |
|  | 192.168.10.6 | ep-type-5 L3 VRF |

109

Spine Configuration and Verification

This section provides guidance for configuring and verifying the spine devices for DPF with EVPN- VXLAN to enable color-based routing.

Spine Configuration

Configure the spine devices to implement color-based BGP communities and fabric color assignments. Configure the BGP extended community using set policy-options community color-name members color:0:<tag> statement. Then assign the fabric-color at the global, group, or neighbor level to implement the fabric. In our examples here we define the colors "Blue", "Red", and "Green" for Spine 1, Spine 2, and Spine 3 respectively, and then assigned the fabric colors at the BGP neighbor level. The configurations for the remaining spine devices are similar. Spine 1 Spine 2 Spine 3

110

Spine Verification

Use the show bgp summary command with the fabric-color color-name option to display information related to BGP neighbors with the specified fabric-color only. This example shows the outputs for Spine 1. The outputs for the remaining spine devices are similar.

Leaf Configuration and Verification

This section provides guidance for configuring and verifying the leaf devices for DPF with EVPN-VXLAN to enable color-based routing and automatic failover between colored paths. We are only including the Leaf 1 configurations in this example for brevity. The configurations on Leaf 2, Leaf 3, and Leaf 4 are similar.

Leaf Configurations

These examples include configuring the following:

• Color community definitions

• Loopback addresses for colored tunnel endpoints

```text
111
• Fabric colors for BGP neighbors
• Colored tunnel endpoint advertisements with primary and backup paths
• Service-specific VRF instances for Layer 2 and Layer 3 EVPN services
Configure the BGP extended community using the set policy-options community color-name members
color:0:<tag> statement.
We have defined the colors "Blue", "Red", and "Green" because Leaf 1 has connections to all three color
fabrics.
Configure the loopback interface IP addresses. Each VRF in this example uses a different IP address for
their individual colored tunnel endpoint.
Configure the fabric-color statement at the neighbor level to assign the fabric colors to the neighbors of
the same color. This example creates three distinct colored paths through the underlay fabric, Blue, Red,
and Green.
Configure fabric route advertisements using the fabric-advertise statement with primary and backup
color assignments. Configuring a backup-color enables automatic failover if the primary path becomes
unavailable. Configuring a backup-color also triggers adding an AIGP metric of 0 to the route advertised
over the primary colored fabric.
```

112 Configure a layer 3 VRF instance for EVPN Type-2 services with integrated routing and bridging. This example creates a VRF instance for Type-2 EVPN services and associates IRB interfaces 478-481 for Layer 3 gateway functionality. It also includes a loopback logical interface lo0.301 for VRF specific addressing and sets the route distinguisher 192.168.0.1:301 for route uniqueness. Configure a layer 3 VRF instance for EVPN Type-5 ip-prefix-routes. This example includes the coloredtunnel-address statement to associate the VRF with the colored tunnel endpoint 192.168.10.1. Associate a MAC-VRF routing instance with a colored tunnel endpoint by adding the colored-tunneladdress statement to the configuration. In this example, adding this statement to an existing MAC VRF

113 associates it with the colored tunnel endpoint 192.168.4.1, enabling Layer 2 EVPN services to utilize the Red colored path with Blue backup.

Leaf Verification

You can verify the configuration using the various show commands. Use the show bgp summary fabric-color color-name command to display neighbors with the specified fabric color only. This example shows the neighbor 172.16.1.1 has an established session over the fabric-color Blue. The show bgp neighbor fabric-color color-name command displays BGP neighbors with the specified fabric color only. In this example you can see the Fabric-color field displays the BGP color community name Blue and value assigned to the BGP color community.

114 The show bgp fabric-advertise command shows the advertised routes with the primary and backup colors assigned to them.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding in a CLOS Network

IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design

and Implementation with EBGP

IN THIS SECTION

Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay | 117 Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering | 120 Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity | 122 Most use cases in this guide are based on an IP Fabric that uses IPv4 and EBGP for underlay connectivity with IBGP overlay peering. On supporting platforms, starting in Junos OS Release 21.2R2- S1 and 21.4R1, you can alternatively use an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure. With an IPv6 Fabric, the VXLAN virtual tunnel endpoints (VTEPs) encapsulate the VXLAN header with an IPv6 outer header and tunnel the packets using IPv6. The workload packets with the payload can use either IPv4 or IPv6. See Figure 36 on page 115.

115

Figure 36: IPv6 Fabric VXLAN Packet Encapsulation

An IPv6 Fabric uses IPv6 addressing, IPv6 and EBGP for underlay connectivity, and IPv6 and EBGP for overlay peering. You can’t mix IPv4 and IPv6 underlays and overlay peering in the same fabric. This section describes how to configure the IPv6 Fabric design. In this environment, you can take advantage of the expanded addressing capabilities and efficient packet processing that the IPv6 protocol offers. We have qualified this IPv6 Fabric in our reference architectures with:

• The following routing and bridging overlay designs:

• Bridged overlay

• Edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay

• EVPN instances configured using MAC-VRF routing instances only.

Figure 37 on page 116 shows a high-level representative view of the spine and leaf devices in an IPv6 Fabric.

116 Figure 37: Basic Spine and Leaf Fabric with an IPv6 Fabric The topology can be the same or similar to the supported topologies with an IPv4 Fabric. The main differences in how you configure an IPv6 Fabric instead of an IPv4 Fabric include:

• You configure IPv6 interfaces to interconnect the devices.

• You assign an IPv6 address to the loopback interface on the devices serving as VTEPs.

• In the EVPN routing instance, you set the VTEP source interface as the device’s loopback IPv6

address, rather than an IPv4 address.

• You configure the underlay EBGP peering between the IPv6 interface addresses interconnecting the

devices. You configure the overlay EBGP peering between the device IPv6 loopback addresses. See "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51 for the initial hardened release in which a platform supports an IPv6 fabric design, based on the type of overlay architecture and the role the device serves in the fabric. Look for the table rows that state the device role “with IPv6 underlay”. See EVPN-VXLAN with an IPv6 Underlay in the EVPN User Guide for an overview of EVPN-VXLAN feature support and limitations with an IPv6 Fabric. For an overview of the supported IP fabric underlay and overlay models and components used in our reference architecture designs, see "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

117 Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric

Underlay

In this design (similar to the IPv4 Fabric in "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81), you interconnect the spine and leaf devices using aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two member links. (You can alternatively use a single link, or more than two member links in an aggregated Ethernet bundle, for each spine and leaf connection.) This procedure shows how to configure the interfaces on the leaf side toward the spines, and enable EBGP with IPv6 as the underlay routing protocol on the leaf device. NOTE: Although this procedure doesn’t show the spine side configuration, you configure the interconnecting interfaces and the EBGP underlay on the spine side in the same way as you do on the leaf device. Figure 38 on page 117 shows the interfaces on leaf device Leaf1 that you configure in this procedure. Figure 38: Leaf1 Interfaces and IPv6 Addressing with EBGP for Spine and Leaf Connectivity To configure aggregated Ethernet interfaces and EBGP in the underlay with IPv6 on Leaf1:

1. Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces permitted on the device.

118 We recommend setting this number to the exact number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on your device, including aggregated Ethernet interfaces that are not for the spine to leaf device connections here. In this scaled-down example, we set the count to 10. If you have more spine and leaf devices or employ aggregated Ethernet interfaces for other purposes, set the appropriate number for your network.

2. Create the aggregated Ethernet interfaces toward the spine devices, optionally assigning a

description to each interface.

3. Assign interfaces to each aggregated Ethernet interface.

In this case, we show creating aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two member links each. In this step, you also specify the minimum number of links (one) that have to remain up before all links in the aggregated Ethernet interface stop sending and receiving traffic.

4. Assign an IPv6 address to each aggregated Ethernet interface.

In this step, you also specify the interface MTU size. You set two MTU values for each aggregated Ethernet interface, one for the physical interface and one for the IPv6 logical interface. We configure a higher MTU on the physical interface to account for VXLAN encapsulation.

5. Enable fast LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

119 You enable LACP with the fast periodic interval, which configures LACP to send a packet every second.

6. Configure an IPv6 loopback address and a router ID on the device.

Although the underlay uses the IPv6 address family, for BGP handshaking to work in the overlay, you must configure the router ID as an IPv4 address. The router ID is often the device’s IPv4 loopback address, but is not required to match that address. For simplicity in this example, we don’t assign an IPv4 loopback address, but to easily associate device IPv6 addresses and router IDs, we assign IPv4 router IDs with similar address components. In Figure 38 on page 117, the device IPv6 loopback address for Leaf1 is 2001:db8::192:168:1:1 and the IPv4 router ID is 192.168.1.1.

7. Enable EBGP (type external) with IPv6 as the underlay network routing protocol.

With EBGP, each device in the underlay fabric has a unique local 32-bit autonomous system (AS) number (ASN). Figure 38 on page 117 shows the ASN values for each device in this configuration example. The EBGP ASN for Leaf1 is 4200000011. Leaf1 connects to Spine1 (ASN 4200000001) and Spine2 (ASN 4200000002) using the IPv6 addresses of the aggregated Ethernet interfaces toward each spine device. The underlay routing configuration ensures that the devices can reliably reach each other. The only difference in this configuration from the IPv4 Fabric configuration in "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 is that you use IPv6 addressing instead of IPv4 addressing. In this step, you also enable BGP multipath with the multiple AS option. By default, EBGP selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table. When you enable BGP multipath, the device installs all equal-cost paths to a given destination into the forwarding table. The multiple-as option enables load balancing between EBGP neighbors in different autonomous systems.

120

8. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IPv6 address of the loopback interface to the

EBGP peer devices in the underlay. In this example, because we configure only an IPv6 address on the loopback interface, this simple policy correctly retrieves and advertises that address in the EBGP underlay.

9. (QFX Series Broadcom-based switches running Junos OS releases in the 21.2 release train only)

Enable the Broadcom VXLAN flexible flow feature on the device if needed. QFX Series Broadcom-based switches require the flexible flow feature to support IPv6 VXLAN tunneling. You don't need this step starting in Junos OS Release 21.4R1, where the default configuration enables this option for you on platforms that require this feature. When you set this option and commit the configuration, you must then reboot the device for the change to take effect.

10. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that

you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, make sure you set the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):

Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering

Use this procedure with an IPv6 Fabric EBGP underlay to configure the IPv6 overlay peering. Both the underlay and overlay must use IPv6, so you can’t use the overlay configuration in "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97 (which describes configuring overlay peering in an IPv4 Fabric). Because the overlay peering in the IPv6 Fabric also uses EBGP as the routing protocol, the overlay peering configuration is very similar to the underlay configuration in "Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay" on page 117. The main difference is that in the

121 underlay, we specify the IPv6 addresses of the Layer 3 interfaces that connect to the EBGP neighbors (in this example, the aggregated Ethernet interface addresses). In contrast, in the overlay, we use the device IPv6 loopback addresses to specify the EBGP neighbors. Refer again to Figure 38 on page 117 for the device addresses and ASN values in this example. Another difference in the overlay configuration here is that we configure EVPN signaling. To configure EBGP overlay peering with IPv6 on Leaf1 to Spine1 and Spine2:

1. Enable IPv6 EBGP peering with EVPN signalling between the leaf and spine devices. Specify the

device’s IPv6 loopback address as the local-address in the overlay BGP group configuration. In this step, similar to the underlay EBGP configuration, you also:

• Specify the device’s local ASN.

• Enable BGP multipath with the multiple AS option to install all equal-cost paths to a destination

into the forwarding table, and enable load balancing between EBGP neighbors with different ASNs. In the overlay BGP group, when you configure the neighbor devices, you specify the IPv6 loopback addresses of the peer neighbor devices. (The underlay BGP group configuration uses the interconnecting aggregated Ethernet interface IPv6 address for neighbor peering.)

2. Set the multihop option to enable EBGP peering in the overlay using device loopback addresses.

When we use EBGP in the overlay, the EBGP peering happens between the device IPv6 loopback addresses. However, EBGP was designed to establish peering between directly-connected IP or IPv6 interface addresses. As a result, EBGP peering between device loopback addresses requires an extra hop for an EBGP control packet to reach its destination. The multihop option enables the device to establish the EBGP sessions in the overlay under these conditions. Also include the no-nexthop-change option with the multihop statement so that intermediate EBGP overlay peers don’t change the BGP next-hop attribute from the originating value across multiple hops.

122

3. (Recommended in the overlay) Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) in the overlay to

help detect BGP neighbor failures.

Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity

After you’ve committed the underlay and overlay configurations in "Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay" on page 117 and "Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering" on page 120, issue the following commands:

1. Enter the show bgp summary command on Leaf1 to confirm EBGP connectivity toward the spine

devices. The example output shows the following:

• The established underlay connectivity with Spine1 and Spine 2—refer to the Peer column showing

aggregated Ethernet interface addresses 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 and 2001:db8::173:16:2:1, respectively.

• The established overlay peering toward Spine1 and Spine2—refer to the Peer column showing

device loopback addresses 2001:db8::192:168:0:1 and 2001:db8::192:168:0:2, respectively.

123

2. Enter the show bfd session command on Leaf1 to verify the BFD session is up between Leaf1 and

the two spine devices (loopback IPv6 addresses 2001:db8::192:168:0:1 and 2001:db8::192:168:0:2).

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81

Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97 BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-

VXLAN Data Center

SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION

This guide demonstrates how to deploy and verify Overview | 124 BGP unnumbered peerings (also called BGP autodiscovery or BGP auto-peering). This feature

124

Overview

Today many enterprises and hyper-scale data centers use BGP as the underlay routing protocol. Unlike traditional IGPs such as OSPF and IS-IS, BGP typically requires that you explicitly configure peering, autonomous system (AS) numbers, and routing policies to control route exchanges. Many operators are still relatively inexperienced with IPv6. Using BGP unnumbered peering, which dynamically discovers IPv6 neighbors, reduces the burden of manually configuring an IPv6 underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN data center (DC) fabric. Junos OS builds on the baseline IPv6 functionality by supporting BGP group configuration. BGP group configuration provides support for dynamic peering parameters (such as allowed remote AS numbers) used to support an unnumbered IPv6 fabric. You can configure an EVPN-VXLAN DC fabric manually, or by using the BGP unnumbered peering feature. This use case describes the complexity of manually configuring the fabric and why using the BGP unnumbered peering feature provides a much easier solution. Consider a simple two-tier data center. This modest size fabric consists of four spine devices and 32 leaf devices. Each spine device has 32 links which attach to the leaf devices and each leaf has two fabric links, one for each spine device. In this manual configuration, you first need to need to assign the IP addresses for the network. For this fabric you'll need to configure 4*32=128 IPv6 IP addresses. Each network requires two host address assignments. Next, you configure the BGP peers and their associated AS numbers. For each end of every fabric link, you need one BGP peering session. In our example fabric, this calculation equates to a total of 4*32*2=256 BGP peer definitions, each of which requires a unique peering IP and remote AS number. Manually defining 256 BGP peerings can be cumbersome and is also prone to error. In a complex fabric, a simple misconfiguration can be difficult to isolate. Let's say that the fabric supports 128 leaf devices. You must now configure 4*128=512 IP IPv6 networks. It is clear from the math that the complexity of manually provisioning a large fabric quickly becomes a burden. Also, for IPv4 fabrics, an often

125 overlooked factor is the large number of IPv4 addresses the underlay consumes. In many networks, IPv4 addressing space is at a premium. In contrast, BGP unnumbered peering requires no routable IP network assignments on underlay links. All BGP peering in the underlay uses only link-local IP addresses. Using link-local IP addresses means less configuration, less complexity, smaller routing tables, and IP address preservation.

Configure BGP Unnumbered EVPN Fabric

When configuring BGP unnumbered peering, you only need a minimum number of configuration statements. These configuration statements are used to quickly bootstrap an IPv6 based underlay. This underlay supports the EVPN-VXLAN overlay. Although the underlay uses native IPv6, it also supports IPv4 routes with IPv6 next-hops (RFC5549) . In other words, the underlay supports both IPv4 and IPv6 workloads and their related virtual networks in the EVPN-VXLAN overlay. A complete discussion of IPv6 stateless auto-configuration is beyond the scope of this document. The following list highlights the key features of BGP unnumbered peering:

• Automatically configures stateless link-local IPv6 addresses on all IPv6 enabled interfaces.

• Supports a list of allowed AS numbers to simplify peering to remote fabric devices.

• Uses IPv6 Router Advertisements (RAs) that provides dynamic discovery of directly attached

neighbors.

• Uses IPv6 neighbor discovery to resolve the neighbor's link-local IP to the corresponding MAC

address to facilitate link level communications.

• The local end uses the discovered peer link-local and MAC addresses to send a BGP open message to

directly attached neighbors. This open message contains the local peer's AS number. The remote peer matches this against its list of allowed AS numbers to decide if the session is allowed. Likewise, the local peer matches on the remote peer's AS number, as returned in the remote peer's open message.

• Provides you with a simple BGP policy that advertises all directly connected networks (at a minimum,

the loopback address of each fabric device must be advertised).

• Uses the default EBGP policy to re-advertise the routes learned from other fabric devices.

• Uses the BGP AS path length to prevent loops and to provide optimum route selection for ECMP

load balancing.

• Simplifies adding an EVPN-VXLAN overlay since the underlay provides loopback reachability.

126 NOTE: BGP unnumbered peering only supports EBGP. Multihop EBGP and IBGP are not supported.

Topology

The following diagram shows a simple two spine and two leaf topology.

• The fabric underlay is pure IPv6, including the device loopbacks.

• The attached servers are IPv4-based, which demonstrates support for IPv4 over IPv6 (see RFC

5549). IPv6 workloads are also supported in the overlay. Assume these servers are bare-metal servers (BMS), and are preconfigured with the IP addressing that is shown. The VLAN membership is used to map these workloads into overlay virtual networks that are isolated by VXLAN encapsulation. The access interfaces are untagged for this example.

• You expect to have routed connectivity between the server workloads when you add an overlay. The

overlay can be either CRB or ERB. The BGP unnumbered underlay supports either type of overlay.

127

Step-by-Step Configuration

This section provides step-by-step instructions on how to configure BGP unnumbered peering. The configuration is similar on all the fabric devices, so the configuration for the Leaf 1 device only is shown here. Additional device configurations are shown later in this example. Step-by-Step: Leaf 1

1. Enable the inet6 family on all fabric interfaces. These fabric interfaces attach Leaf 1 to the spine

devices. The inet6 family provides support for IPv6 stateless auto-configuration and neighbor discovery. To support IPv4 workloads you must also add the inet family.

2. Create the loopback interface lo0 and configure the IPv6 address. The loopback address is used to

support BGP peering when you add the EVPN-VXLAN overlay.

3. Configure a policy that specifies the list of BGP AS numbers you want to allow for dynamic BGP

peering.

4. Configure a per-packet load balancing policy. A load balancing policy allows multiple equal-cost next-

hops to be installed in the forwarding table, which provides rapid fail-over to alternative equal-cost fabric hops in the event of a link failure.

5. Apply the per-packet load balancing policy to the forwarding table.

128

6. Configure a policy to advertise direct routes. Because link-local subnets are not exported, in this

example, this policy advertises only the loopback address. You'll use this same loopback address later when you configure BGP peering in the overlay.

7. Configure the router ID (RID). Because this example is for a native IPv6 fabric, you must ensure the

configuration includes an IPv4 formatted router ID. In most cases, the RID is automatically derived from the loopback address, but in this example, the loopback is IPv6 only.

8. Configure a router advertisement (RA) for each fabric interface. When the RA is enabled, the

interface periodically sends RA messages. RA messages are used to discover the remote neighbor's link-local IP, which in turn kicks off neighbor discovery and the rest of the dynamic peering process.

9. Configure a BGP group to support unnumbered peering. We apply a policy to this group that exports

direct routes. You must include all fabric interfaces in this group and you must enable the interfaces with peer-auto-discovery under the [protocols bgp group <group-name> dynamic-neighbor <neighbor-group-name>] hierarchy. This group is linked to the policy that defines the AS numbers that are allowed for dynamic peering. You enable load balancing over multiple paths and multiple AS numbers. Remember that in this fabric, each node uses a unique AS number. Multipath load balancing (ECMP) to multiple AS numbers enables fast fail-over by allowing the RIB to install multiple next hops that point to these different AS numbers. Adding support for extended IPv4 nexthops allows IPv4 route exchange over the IPv6 BGP sessions.

129

Results

Recall that all fabric devices have similar configurations. For brevity, only the configuration delta for Leaf 1 is shown.

130

131

Quick Configurations

To get you up and running quickly, we've provided you with quick configurations for each node in the topology. Copy and edit the following commands as needed for the specifics of your environment (you usually would not use the commands exactly as shown here). Paste the modified commands into the related fabric device's terminal window. You must be in configuration mode at the [edit] hierarchy: The quick configuration for Leaf 1:

132 The quick configuration for Leaf 2: The quick configuration for Spine 1:

133 The quick configuration for Spine 2:

134 Be sure to commit the configuration changes on all devices.

Validation

Use these commands and sample outputs to confirm the proper operation of your unnumbered underlay. The configuration and operation of all nodes are similar. Below we only show commands and output for Leaf 1. The same commands apply to all nodes, and similar output is expected for all devices. Overall, the main verification task is to confirm all nodes have expected BGP sessions established using link-local addresses, and that the fabric devices are properly exchanging loopback routes. We take a structured bottom-up approach that confirms each aspect needed to successfully establish BGP sessions. Confirm fabric interfaces are up and operational.

135

136 The output shows that the Leaf 1's fabric interfaces are operational. Also seen is the lack of an explicit IPv4 or IPv6 address. Only the inet and inet6 families are configured on the interface. As a result, only IPv6 link-local IPv6 addresses are present as part of IPv6 stateless address configuration. We also note the loopback address has the expected IPv6 address assignment. The output of the show interfaces terse CLI command makes it easy to verify the state and configuration of all interfaces, including the loopback address. Confirm all fabric interfaces are sending and receiving IPv6 router advertisements (RAs).

137 The output confirms that Leaf 1 is sending, and receiving RAs, to and from both spine devices. The RAs correctly report the sending end's link-local address. Confirm the fabric devices have learned the MAC to link-local address bindings of all directly attached IPv6 neighbors using IPv6 ND. The output confirms that Leaf 1 has successfully resolved the MAC to link-local address of both its neighbors, that is, the two spine devices. Confirm that you can ping a neighbor using its link-local address. The ping from Leaf 1 to Spine 1 succeeds. This result confirms IPv6 connectivity using link-local addresses.

138 Confirm that all fabric devices have established BGP peering sessions to the directly connected neighbors. As expected, the output shows that the Leaf 1 device has two BGP sessions established. The display confirms that IPv6 routes are exchanged. We include more on the confirmation later. If desired, show details about a BGP neighbor:

139 Confirm that all nodes are advertising their loopback address while learning the loopback address of other nodes.

140 As expected, the output confirms that Leaf 1 has learned the loopback addresses of all other fabric devices. Note that for Leaf 2, it shows two equal costs paths, one path through Spine 1 and the other through Spine 2. If needed, you can help isolate routing problems by displaying the specific routes advertised to, or received from, a given BGP neighbor. Note that as with a ping to a link-local address, you must qualify the peer's link-local IP with the corresponding egress interface:

141 Confirm that the fabric supports ECMP load balancing. Display details about the routes Leaf 1 use to reach Leaf 2. You expect two equal costs routes, one through each spine device. In the section below, you confirm ECMP in both the routing and forwarding tables (RIB and FIB).

142 The output confirms that both paths between Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 are actively used to forward traffic and are part of a multipath route. Confirm that Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 have connectivity over the underlay. The output confirms that Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 have underlay connectivity. The path shows that this flow went through Spine 1, as indicated by its loopback address as the first hop. This underlay is now ready to support your choice of EVPN-VXLAN overlay. See Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation for details on available overlay options.

Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring a Bridged Overlay | 144

143

Bridged Overlay — Release History | 171

A bridged overlay provides Ethernet bridging between leaf devices in an EVPN network, as shown in Figure 39 on page 143. This overlay type simply extends VLANs between the leaf devices across VXLAN tunnels. Bridged overlays provide an entry level overlay style for data center networks that require Ethernet connectivity but do not need routing services between the VLANs. In this example, loopback interfaces on the leaf devices act as VXLAN tunnel endpoints (VTEPs). The tunnels enable the leaf devices to send VLAN traffic to other leaf devices and Ethernet-connected end systems in the data center. The spine devices only provide basic EBGP underlay and IBGP overlay connectivity for these leaf-to-leaf VXLAN tunnels.

Figure 39: Bridged Overlay

144 NOTE: If inter-VLAN routing is required for a bridged overlay, you can use an MX Series router or SRX Series security device that is external to the EVPN/VXLAN fabric. Otherwise, you can select one of the other overlay types that incorporate routing (such as an "edge-routed bridging overlay" on page 236, a "centrally-routed bridging overlay" on page 172, or a "routed overlay" on page 267) discussed in this Cloud Data Center Architecture Guide. The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure a bridged overlay:

Configuring a Bridged Overlay

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 145 Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 147 Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 148 Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 153 Bridged overlays are supported on all platforms included in this reference design. To configure a bridged overlay, you configure VNIs, VLANs, and VTEPs on the leaf devices, and BGP on the spine devices. We support either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric (with supported platforms) as the fabric infrastructure with bridged overlay architectures. When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, the focus is on providing overlay transport services between the leaf devices. Consequently, you configure an IP Fabric underlay and IBGP overlay peering with IPv4, or an IPv6 Fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering. There are no VTEPs or IRB interfaces needed, because the spine device does not provide any routing functionality or EVPN/ VXLAN capabilities in a bridged overlay. On the leaf devices, you can configure a bridged overlay using the default switch instance or using MAC-VRF instances. NOTE: We support EVPN-VXLAN on devices running Junos OS Evolved only with MAC- VRF instance configurations.

145 In addition, we support the IPv6 Fabric infrastructure design only with MAC-VRF instance configurations. Some configuration steps that affect the Layer 2 configuration differ with MAC-VRF instances. Likewise, one or two steps might differ for IPv6 Fabric configurations compared to IPv4 Fabric configurations. The leaf device configuration includes the following steps:

• Enable EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation to connect to other leaf devices, and configure the

loopback interface as a VTEP source interface. If you are using MAC-VRF instances instead of the default switching instance, configure a MAC-VRF instance with these parameters in the MAC-VRF instance. If your fabric uses an IPv6 Fabric, you configure the VTEP source interface as an IPv6 interface.

• Establish route targets and route distinguishers. If you are using MAC-VRF instances instead of the

default switching instance, configure a MAC-VRF instance with these parameters in the MAC-VRF instance.

• Configure Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI) settings.

• Map VLANs to VNIs.

Again, you do not include IRB interfaces or routing on the leaf devices for this overlay method. The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the bridged overlay: Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device To configure a bridged overlay on a spine device, perform the following steps: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure 40 on page 146.

146

Figure 40: Bridged Overlay – Spine Device

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a spine device, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81. If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead. Those instructions include how to configure the IPv6 underlay connectivity with EBGP and IPv6 overlay peering.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine

devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, you don’t need this step. Step 1 also covers how to configure the EBGP IPv6 overlay peering that corresponds to the IPv6 underlay connectivity configuration.

3. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that

you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, set the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):

147 Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your spine devices:

1. Verify that the spine device has reachability to the leaf devices. This output shows the possible

routes to Leaf 1. (With an IPv6 Fabric, enter this command with the IPv6 address of the spine device instead of an IPv4 address.)

2. Verify that IBGP is functional on the spine devices acting as a route reflector cluster. You should see

peer relationships with all spine device loopback interfaces (192.168.0.1 through 192.168.0.4) and all leaf device loopback interfaces (192.168.1.1 through 192.168.1.96). Use the same command if you have an IPv6 Fabric with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering. In the output, look for the IPv6 addresses of the peer device interconnecting interfaces to verify underlay EBGP connectivity. Look for peer device loopback addresses to verify overlay EBGP peering. Ensure that the state is Establ (established).

148 Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device To configure a bridged overlay on a leaf device, perform the following:

NOTE:

• The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 1, as shown in Figure 41 on

page 148.

Figure 41: Bridged Overlay – Leaf Device

149

1. Configure the IP Fabric underlay and overlay:

For an IP Fabric underlay using IPv4:

• Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

• Confirm that your IBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure IPv4 IBGP overlay peering

on your leaf device, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. For an IPv6 Fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering:

• Ensure the IPv6 underlay is in place and the EBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure

an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.

2. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation, and specify the VTEP source interface (in

this case, the loopback interface of the leaf device). If your configuration uses the default instance, you configure EVPN-VXLAN at the global level. You also specify the VTEP source interface at the [edit switch-options] hierarchy level:

Leaf 1 (Default Instance):

If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, define a routing instance of type mac-vrf. Then configure EVPN-VXLAN and the VTEP source interface at that MAC-VRF routing instance hierarchy level. You also must configure a service type for the MAC-VRF instance. We configure the vlan-aware service type so you can associate multiple VLANs with the MAC-VRF instance. This setting is consistent with the alternative configuration that uses the default instance.

Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):

If you have an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure (supported only with MAC-VRF instances), in this step you include the inet6 option when you configure the VTEP source interface to use the device loopback address. This option enables IPv6 VXLAN tunneling in the fabric. This is the only difference in the

150 MAC-VRF instance configuration with an IPv6 Fabric as compared to the MAC-VRF instance configuration with an IPv4 Fabric. Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance with an IPv6 Fabric):

3. Define an EVPN route target and route distinguisher, and use the auto option to derive route targets

automatically. Setting these parameters specifies how the routes are imported and exported. The import and export of routes from a bridging table is the basis for dynamic overlays. In this case, members of the global BGP community with a route target of target:64512:1111 participate in the exchange of EVPN/VXLAN information. If your configuration uses the default instance, you use statements in the [edit switch-options] hierarchy, as follows:

Leaf 1 (Default Instance):

The main difference with a MAC-VRF configuration is that you configure these statements in the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level, as follows:

Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):

NOTE: A specific route target processes EVPN Type 1 routes, while an automatic route target processes Type 2 routes. This reference design requires both route targets.

4. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on devices in the QFX5000 line running Junos OS.

A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on

151 the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the shared tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS because those devices can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. You also don’t need to configure this option on devices running Junos OS Evolved, where shared tunnels are enabled by default. Include the following statement to globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device: NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.

5. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on all

interfaces) on the device:

6. Configure ESI settings. Because the end systems in this reference design are multihomed to three leaf

devices per device type cluster (such as QFX5100), you must configure the same ESI identifier and LACP system identifier on all three leaf devices for each unique end system. Unlike other topologies where you would configure a different LACP system identifier per leaf device and have VXLAN select a single designated forwarder, use the same LACP system identifier to allow the 3 leaf devices to appear as a single LAG to a multihomed end system. In addition, use the same aggregated Ethernet interface number for all ports included in the ESI. The configuration for Leaf 1 is shown below, but you must replicate this configuration on both Leaf 2 and Leaf 3 per the topology shown in Figure 42 on page 152. TIP: When you create an ESI number, always set the high order octet to 00 to indicate the ESI is manually created. The other 9 octets can be any hexadecimal value from 00 to FF.

152 Figure 42: ESI Topology for Leaf 1, Leaf 2, and Leaf 3 Leaf 1: If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, you must also add the configured aggregated Ethernet interface to the MAC-VRF instance:

7. Configure VLANs and map them to VNIs. This step enables the VLANs to participate in VNIs across

the EVPN/VXLAN domain. This step shows the VLAN to VNI mapping either in the default instance or in a MAC-VRF instance configuration.

153

Leaf 1 (Default Instance):

Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):

The only difference with a MAC-VRF instance configuration is that you configure these statements in the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level, as follows: Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device Run the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your leaf devices. The commands here show output for a default instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you can alternatively use:

• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this

section.

• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this

section. See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernetswitching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands. The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing instances as this section shows for the default instance. One main difference you might see is in the

154 output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format: where:

• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.

• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical

interface. For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this: If your configuration uses an IPv6 Fabric, you provide IPv6 address parameters where applicable. Output from the commands that display IP addresses reflect the IPv6 device and interface addresses from the underlying fabric. See "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 for the fabric parameters reflected in command outputs in this section with an IPv6 Fabric.

1. Verify the interfaces are operational. Interfaces xe-0/0/10 and xe-0/0/11 are dual homed to the

Ethernet-connected end system through interface ae11, while interfaces et-0/0/48 through et-0/0/51 are uplinks to the four spine devices.

155

156

2. Verify that the leaf devices have reachability to their peer leaf devices.

For example, on Leaf 1 with an IPv6 Fabric, view the possible routes to remote Leaf 2 using the show route address command with device IPv6 address 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 for Leaf 2.

3. Verify on Leaf 1 and Leaf 3 that the Ethernet switching table has installed both the local MAC

addresses and the remote MAC addresses learned through the overlay. NOTE: To identify end systems learned remotely from the EVPN overlay, look for the MAC address, ESI logical interface, and ESI number. For example, Leaf 1 learns about an end system with the MAC address of 02:0c:10:03:02:02 through esi.1885. This end system has an ESI number of 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01. Consequently, this

157 matches the ESI number configured for Leaf 4, 5, and 6 (QFX5110 switches), so we know that this end system is multihomed to these three leaf devices.

4. Verify the remote EVPN routes from a specific VNI and MAC address.

NOTE: The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:routedistinguisher:vni:mac-address.

158 For example, with an IPv4 Fabric, view the remote EVPN routes from VNI 1000 and MAC address 02:0c:10:01:02:02. In this case, the EVPN routes come from Leaf 4 (route distinguisher 192.168.1.4) by way of Spine 1 (192.168.0.1).

159 Or with an IPv6 Fabric, for example, view the remote EVPN routes from VNI 1000 and MAC address c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00. In this case, the EVPN routes come from Leaf 2 (route distinguisher 192.168.1.2) by way of Spine 1 (2001:db8::192:168:0:1).

160

161

5. Verify the source and destination address of each VTEP interface and view their status. Use the show

ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source and show interfaces vtep commands. NOTE: A scaled-out reference design can have 96 leaf devices, which corresponds to 96 VTEP interfaces - one VTEP interface per leaf device. The output here is truncated for readability. The following example shows these commands with an IPv4 Fabric:

162 Or the following example shows these commands with an IPv6 Fabric:

163

6. Verify that each VNI maps to the associated VXLAN tunnel.

164 For example, with an IPv4 Fabric: Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:

7. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnels.

165 For example, with an IPv4 Fabric: Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:

166

8. Verify multihoming information of the gateway and the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:

167 Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:

9. Verify that the VXLAN tunnel from one leaf to another leaf is load balanced with equal cost

multipathing (ECMP) over the underlay.

168

10. Verify that remote MAC addresses are reachable through ECMP.

For example, with an IPv4 Fabric: NOTE: Though the MAC address is reachable over multiple VTEP interfaces, QFX5100, QFX5110, QFX5120-32C, and QFX5200 switches do not support ECMP across the overlay because of a merchant ASIC limitation. Only the QFX10000 line

169 of switches contain a custom Juniper Networks ASIC that supports ECMP across both the overlay and the underlay.

170 Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:

11. Verify which device is the Designated Forwarder (DF) for broadcast, unknown, and multicast (BUM)

traffic coming from the VTEP tunnel. For example, with an IPv4 Fabric: NOTE: Because the DF IP address is listed as 192.168.1.2, Leaf 2 is the DF. Or, for example, with an IPv4 Fabric:

171 NOTE: Because the DF IPv6 address is listed as 2001:db8::192:168:1:1, Leaf 1 is the DF.

SEE ALSO

EVPN Overview

Understanding VXLANs

Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation

Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches

Bridged Overlay — Release History

Table 5 on page 171 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 5: Bridged Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design– Release History 19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section.

172 Table 5: Bridged Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design– Release History (Continued) 17.3R3-S2 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S2 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and

Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance | 173 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances | 205

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 229

A centrally-routed bridging (CRB) overlay performs routing at a central location in the EVPN network as shown in Figure 43 on page 173, In this example, IRB interfaces are configured in the overlay at each spine device to route traffic between the VLANs that originate at the leaf devices and end systems. For an overview of CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

173

Figure 43: CRB Overlay

The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to implement a CRB overlay: Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device | 176 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device | 180 Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device | 186

174 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device | 190 The VLAN-aware CRB overlay is a basic overlay supported on all platforms included in this reference design. It uses the simplest VLAN-aware method to enable a single, default switching instance that supports up to 4094 VLANs. As shown in Figure 44 on page 175, you configure VLANs at the leaf devices, and IRB interfaces for routing at the spine devices. Such configuration is placed in the default switching instance at the [edit vlans], [edit interfaces], [edit protocols evpn], and [edit switch-options] hierarchy levels. Routing instances are not required for this overlay style, but can be implemented as an option depending on the needs of your network.

175

Figure 44: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay

When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, you:

• Configure IRB interfaces to route traffic between Ethernet virtual network instances.

• Set virtual gateway addresses.

• Add VXLAN features to optimize traffic paths.

• Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the default switching instance or in a routing instance.

• Set the loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.

• Configure route distinguishers and route targets to direct traffic to peers.

• Map VLANs to VNIs.

176 When you implement this style of overlay on a leaf device, you:

• Configure Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI) settings.

• Enable EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the default switching instance.

• Establish route targets and route distinguishers.

• Map VLANs to VNIs.

For an overview of VLAN-aware CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. If you need to implement more than 4094 VLANs, you can use a CRB overlay with virtual switches (available on switches in the QFX10000 line) or MAC-VRF instances. See "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205. With MAC-VRF instances, you expand your options to either isolate traffic between tenant systems or to enable routing and forwarding between tenant systems. The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the VLAN-aware CRB overlay in the default switching instance: Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in the default switching instance on a spine device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure 45 on page 177.

177 Figure 45: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance – Spine Device

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a spine device, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine

devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

3. Configure the VTEP tunnel endpoint as the loopback address, and add a route distinguisher and a

route target (target:64512:1111). Also, keep your configuration simple by using the auto route target option, which uses one target for both import and export. Spine 1:

178

4. Configure IRB interfaces for each VNI and the corresponding virtual gateway address (which

uses .254 in the 4th octet for each prefix). Include VXLAN features, such as proxy-macip-advertisement and virtual-gateway-accept-data, to improve performance and manageability.

NOTE:

• We strongly recommend you set the proxy-macip-advertisement option on the spine

devices in a CRB fabric. This option enables one central gateway (the spine device) to send both MAC address and IP address information (ARP entries) that it learns locally to the other central gateways. This operation is called ARP synchronization. Setting this option ensures that ARP synchronization happens efficiently if any leaf devices in the fabric advertise only the MAC addresses in their EVPN Type 2 route advertisements for their connected hosts. This setting improves convergence times and traffic handling in the fabric.

• You must configure both the virtual-gateway-accept-data statement and the preferred

IPv4 and IPv6 addresses to use the ping operation and verify connectivity to the virtual gateway IP address from the end system. Spine 1:

179

5. Configure a secondary logical unit on the loopback interface for the default switching instance.

Spine 1:

6. Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation. Include the no-gateway-community option to advertise the

virtual gateway and IRB MAC addresses to the EVPN peer devices so that Ethernet-only PE devices can learn these MAC addresses. Spine 1:

7. Configure mapping between VLANs and VXLAN VNIs.

Spine 1:

180

8. Configure a routing instance named VRF 1, and map IRB interfaces irb.100 (VNI 10000) and irb.200

(VNI 20000) to this instance. NOTE: Because the irb.300 (VNI 30000) and irb.400 (VNI 40000) interfaces are not configured inside a routing instance, they are part of the default switching instance for the spine devices. The end result of your configuration should match the diagram shown in Figure 45 on page 177. Spine 1: Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your spine devices:

1. Verify the IRB interfaces are operational for both IPv4 and IPv6.

181

2. Verify that the VTEP interfaces are up.

3. Verify the endpoint destination IP address for the VTEP interfaces. The spine devices display their

VTEPs as loopback addresses in the range of 192.168.0.x (1 - 4) and the leaf devices display their VTEPs as loopback addresses in the range of 192.168.1.x (1 - 96).

182

4. Verify that the spine device has all the routes to the leaf devices.

5. Verify that each end system resolves the virtual gateway MAC address for a subnet using the

gateway IRB address on the central gateways (spine devices).

183

184

6. Verify the switching table for VNI 10000 to see entries for end systems and the other spine devices.

185

7. Verify MAC address and ARP information learned from the leaf devices over the control plane.

8. Verify the remote VXLAN tunnel end points.

186

9. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnel.

Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in the default switching instance on a leaf device, perform the following:

NOTE:

187

• The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 1, as shown in Figure 46 on

page 187. Figure 46: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance – Leaf Device

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf device,

see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

3. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation, and specify the VTEP source interface (in

this case, the loopback interface of the leaf device).

188 Leaf 1:

4. Define an EVPN route target and route distinguisher, and use the auto option to derive route targets

automatically. Setting these parameters specifies how the routes are imported and exported. The import and export of routes from a routing or bridging table is the basis for dynamic overlays. In this case, members of the global BGP community with a route target of target:64512:1111 participate in the exchange of EVPN-VXLAN information. Leaf 1:

5. Configure ESI settings on all similar leaf devices. Because the end systems in this reference design are

multihomed to three leaf devices per device type cluster (such as QFX5100), you must configure the same ESI identifier and LACP system identifier on all three leaf devices for each unique end system. Unlike other topologies where you would configure a different LACP system identifier per leaf device and have VXLAN select a single designated forwarder, use the same LACP system identifier to allow the 3 leaf devices to appear as a single LAG to a multihomed end system. In addition, use the same aggregated Ethernet interface number for all ports included in the ESI. The configuration for Leaf 1 is shown below, but you must replicate this configuration on both Leaf 2 and Leaf 3 per the topology shown in Figure 47 on page 189. TIP: When you create an ESI number, always set the high order octet to 00 to indicate the ESI is manually created. The other 9 octets can be any hexadecimal value from 00 to FF.

189 Figure 47: ESI Topology for Leaf 1, Leaf 2, and Leaf 3 Leaf 1:

6. Configure VLANs and map them to VNIs. This step enables the VLANs to participate in VNIs across

the EVPN-VXLAN domain. Leaf 1:

190 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your leaf devices:

1. Verify the interfaces are operational.

191

2. Verify that the EVPN routes are being learned through the overlay.

NOTE:

• Only selected excerpts of this output are displayed.

• The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:route-distinguisher:vni:mac-

address.

192

193

194

3. Verify on Leaf 1 and Leaf 3 that the Ethernet switching table has installed both the local MAC

addresses and the remote MAC addresses learned through the overlay. NOTE: To identify end systems learned remotely from the EVPN overlay, look for the MAC address, ESI logical interface, and ESI number. For example, Leaf 1 learns about an end system with the MAC address of 02:0c:10:03:02:02 through esi.1885. This end system has an ESI number of 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01. Consequently, this matches the ESI number configured for Leaf 4, 5, and 6 (QFX5110 switches), so we know that this end system is multihomed to these three leaf devices.

195

196

4. Verify on Leaf 1 that the virtual gateway ESI (esi.1679) is reachable by all the spine devices.

197

5. Verify the remote EVPN routes coming from VNI 10000 and MAC address 02:0c:10:01:02:02. In

this case, they are coming from Leaf 4 (192.168.1.4) by way of Spine 1 (192.168.0.1). NOTE: The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:routedistinguisher:vni:mac-address.

198

6. Verify the source and destination address of each VTEP interface and view their status.

NOTE: There are 96 leaf devices and four spine devices, so there are 100 VTEP interfaces in this reference design - one VTEP interface per device.

199

7. Verify that each VNI maps to the associated VXLAN tunnel.

200

8. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnels.

9. Verify multihoming information of the gateway and the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

201

202

10. Verify that the VXLAN tunnel from one leaf to another leaf is load balanced with equal cost

multipathing (ECMP) over the underlay.

11. Verify that remote MAC addresses are reachable through ECMP.

203 NOTE: Though the MAC address is reachable over multiple VTEP interfaces, QFX5100, QFX5110, QFX5120-32C, and QFX5200 switches do not support ECMP across the overlay because of a merchant ASIC limitation. Only the QFX10000 line of switches contain a custom Juniper Networks ASIC that supports ECMP across both the overlay and the underlay.

204

12. Verify which device is the Designated Forwarder (DF) for broadcast, unknown, and multicast (BUM)

traffic coming from the VTEP tunnel. NOTE: Because the DF IP address is listed as 192.168.1.2, Leaf 2 is the DF.

205

SEE ALSO

Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN

EVPN Overview

Understanding VXLANs

Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation

Configuring EVPN Routing Instances

Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches

Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-

VRF Instances

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine Device | 207 Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine Device | 211 Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device | 218 Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device | 222 You can configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay model using virtual switches or MAC-VRF instances. With either of these models, you can configure multiple switching instances where each switching instance can support up to 4094 VLANs per instance. The configuration method for VLANs (at the leaf devices) and IRB interfaces (at the spine devices) is similar to the default instance method for VLAN-aware CRB overlays. The main difference is that you configure certain elements inside the virtual switching instances or MAC-VRF instances. See Figure 48 on page 206.

206 Figure 48: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay — Virtual Switch Instance or MAC-VRF Instance When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, you:

• Configure a virtual switch or MAC-VRF instance with:

• The loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.

• Route distinguishers and route targets.

• EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation.

• VLAN to VNI mappings and Layer 3 IRB interface associations.

• Configure virtual gateways, virtual MAC addresses, and corresponding IRB interfaces (to provide

routing between VLANs). To implement this overlay style on a leaf device:

• Configure a virtual switch or a MAC-VRF instance with:

• The loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.

207

• Route distinguishers and route targets.

• EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation.

• VLAN to VNI mappings.

• Set the following end system-facing elements:

• An Ethernet segment ID (ESI).

• Flexible VLAN tagging and extended VLAN bridge encapsulation.

• LACP settings.

• VLAN IDs.

For an overview of VLAN-aware CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. For information on MAC-VRF instances, see "MAC-VRF Instances for Multitenancy in Network Virtualization Overlays" on page 24 and MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview.

NOTE:

• For a simpler method that works on all leaf platforms used in this reference design,

see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance" on page 173 The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the VLAN-aware CRB overlay with virtual switches or MAC-VRF instances. Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine Device To configure a VLAN-aware style of CRB overlay on a spine device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure 49 on page 208.

208 Figure 49: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or a MAC-VRF Instance – Spine Device

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on spine devices, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine

devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

3. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that

you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, set the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):

4. Configure a virtual switch instance (VS1) or a MAC-VRF instance (MAC-VRF-1) for a VLAN-aware

service. With the VLAN-aware service type, you can configure the instance with one or more VLANs. Include VTEP information, VXLAN encapsulation, VLAN to VNI mapping, associated IRB interfaces, and other instance details (such as a route distinguisher and a route target) as part of the configuration.

209 For a virtual switch instance, use instance-type virtual-switch. Using the VLAN-aware model, configure VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000 in the virtual switch instance with the associated IRB interfaces.

Spine 1 (Virtual Switch Instance):

With MAC-VRF instances, use instance-type mac-vrf. You also configure the service type when you create the MAC-VRF instance. Here we configure service-type vlan-aware with the two VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000 and their associated IRB interfaces in the MAC-VRF instance.

Spine 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):

210

5. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on the device.

A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. The following statement globally enables shared VXLAN tunnels on the device: This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches, which can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.

6. Configure spine devices with one or more VLANs for the VLAN-aware method. Include settings for

the IPv4 and IPv6 virtual gateways and virtual MAC addresses. This example shows the configuration for Spine 1 with IRB interfaces and virtual gateways for VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000. Spine 1:

211 Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC- VRF Instances on a Spine Device To verify this style of overlay on a spine device, run the commands in this section. Most commands here show output for a virtual switch instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you can alternatively use:

• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this

section.

• The show mac-vrf routing database command, which is an alias for the show evpn database command in this

section.

• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this

section. See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernetswitching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands. Otherwise, you can use the commands in this section for either virtual switch instances or MAC-VRF instances. The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing instances as this section shows for virtual switch instances. One main difference you might see is in the output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format: where:

• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.

• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical

interface.

212 For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:

1. Verify the IRB interfaces for VNIs 90000 and 100000 are operational for both IPv4 and IPv6.

2. (MAC-VRF instances only) Verify the VLANs you configured as part of the MAC-VRF instance.

213

3. Verify switching details about the EVPN routing instance. This output includes information about the

route distinguisher (192.168.1.10:900), VXLAN encapsulation, ESI (00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02), verification of the VXLAN tunnels for VLANs 900 and 1000, EVPN neighbors (Spine 2 - 4, and Leaf 10 - 12), and the source VTEP IP address (192.168.0.1).

214

4. Verify the MAC address table on the leaf device.

NOTE:

• 00:00:5e:90:00:00 and 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 are the IP subnet gateways on the spine

device.

• 02:0c:10:09:02:01 and 02:0c:10:08:02:01 are end systems connected through the

leaf device.

215

5. Verify the end system MAC address is reachable from all three leaf devices.

216

6. Verify the end system is reachable through the forwarding table.

217

7. Verify end system information (MAC address, IP address, etc.) has been added to the IPv4 ARP table

and IPv6 neighbor table.

218

8. Verify that the EVPN database contains the MAC address (02:0c:10:08:02:01) and ARP information

learned from an end system connected to the leaf device. Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in a virtual switch or a MAC-VRF instance on a leaf device, perform the following:

219 NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure 50 on page 219. Figure 50: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances – Leaf Device

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on leaf devices, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf devices,

see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

3. Configure a virtual switch instance (VS1) or a MAC-VRF instance (MAC-VRF-1) to enable EVPN-

VXLAN. Also, map VLANs 900 and 1000 to VNIs 90000 and 100000 in the instance. For a virtual switch instance, use instance-type virtual-switch.

220

Leaf 10 (Virtual Switch Instance):

With MAC-VRF instances, use instance-type mac-vrf. You also configure the service type when you create the MAC-VRF instance. Here we configure service-type vlan-aware with the two VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000, and their VNI mappings.

Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):

4. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on the device.

A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the

221 shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. The following statement globally enables shared VXLAN tunnels on the device: This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches, which can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.

5. Configure the leaf device to communicate with the end system. In this example, configure an

aggregated Ethernet interface on Leaf 10—in this case, ae12 with two member interfaces. With the interface definition, include LACP options, an ESI in all-active mode, and VLANs 900 and 1000 (which this example uses for the VLAN-aware service type). Figure 51 on page 221 illustrates the topology. Figure 51: ESI Topology for Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12 Leaf 10:

222 Note that in this example, you configure the aggregated Ethernet interface to support the service provider configuration style. See Flexible Ethernet Service Encapsulation for more information on the service provider style configuration for switch interfaces. Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf Device To verify this style of overlay on a leaf device, run the commands in this section. Most commands here show output for a virtual switch instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you can alternatively use:

• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this

section.

• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this

section. See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernetswitching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands. Otherwise, you can use the commands in this section for either virtual switch instances or MAC-VRF instances. The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing instances as this section shows for virtual switch instances. One main difference you might see is in the output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format: where:

• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.

223

• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical

interface. For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:

1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interface is operational on the leaf device.

2. (MAC-VRF instances only) Verify the VLANs you configured as part of the MAC-VRF instance.

224

3. Verify switching details about the EVPN routing instance. This output includes information about the

route distinguisher (192.168.1.10:900), VXLAN encapsulation, ESI (00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02), verification of the VXLAN tunnels for VLANs 900 and 1000, EVPN neighbors (Spine 1 - 4, and Leaf 11 and 12), and the source VTEP IP address (192.168.1.10).

225

4. View the MAC address table on the leaf device to confirm that spine device and end system MAC

addresses appear in the table.

NOTE:

• 00:00:5e:90:00:00 and 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 are the IP subnet gateways on the spine

device.

• 02:0c:10:09:02:01 and 02:0c:10:08:02:01 are end systems connected through the

leaf device.

226

227

5. Verify that the IP subnet gateway ESIs discovered in Step 3 (esi.2144 for VNI 90000 and esi.2139 for

VNI 100000) are reachable from all four spine devices.

6. Verify the IP subnet gateway on the spine device (00:00:5e:a0:00:00) is reachable through the

forwarding table.

228

SEE ALSO

Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN

EVPN Overview

Understanding VXLANs

Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation

Configuring EVPN Routing Instances

MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview

Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches

229

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History

Table 6 on page 229 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 6: CRB Overlay in the Data Center Fabric Reference Design– Release History 19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 17.3R3-S2 Adds support for Contrail Enterprise Multicloud, where you can configure CRB overlays from the Contrail Command GUI. 17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section

Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System

Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN Multihoming with VLAN Trunking | 230

Enabling Storm Control | 234

Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History | 235

For an overview of multihoming an Ethernet-connected end system in this reference design, see the Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. Figure 52 on page 230 illustrates the multihomed Ethernet-connected end system in this procedure:

230

Figure 52: Ethernet-Connected Multihoming Example Overview

Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN

Multihoming with VLAN Trunking

EVPN multihoming is used in this building block to connect an Ethernet-connected end system into the overlay network. EVPN multihoming works by treating two or more physical multihomed links as a single Ethernet segment identified by an EVPN Ethernet Segment ID (ESI). The set of physical links belonging to the same Ethernet segment are treated as one aggregated Ethernet interface. The member links—much like member links in a traditional aggregated Ethernet interface—provide redundant paths to and from the end system while also ensuring overlay network traffic is load-balanced across the multiple paths. LACP with the fast timer mode is used to improve fault detection and disablement of impaired members of an Ethernet segment. MicroBFD may also be used to further improve fault isolation but may not scale to support all end-system facing ports. Furthermore, support for microBFD must exist at the end system. The reference design tested an Ethernet-connected server was connected to a single leaf or multihomed to 2 or 3 leaf devices to verify that traffic can be properly handled in multihomed setups with more than 2 leaf devices; in practice, an Ethernet-connected server can be multihomed to a large number of leaf devices. To configure a multihomed Ethernet-connected server:

1. (Aggregated Ethernet interfaces only) Create the aggregated Ethernet interfaces to connect each leaf

device to the server. Enable LACP with a fast period interval for each aggregated Ethernet interface.

231 Leaf 10: Leaf 11: Leaf 12: NOTE: The three leaf devices in this step use the same aggregated Ethernet interface name—ae11—and member link interfaces—et-0/0/13 and et-0/0/14— to organize and simplify network administration. Avoid using different AE names at each VTEP for the same ESI as this will require configuring the LACP admin-key so that the end system can identify the multihomed links as part of the same LAG.

2. Configure each interface into a trunk interface. Assign VLANs to each trunk interface.

NOTE: If you are connecting your end system to the leaf device with a single link, replace the interface name—for example, ae11—with a physical interface name—for example, et-0/0/13—for the remainder of this procedure. Leaf 10:

232 Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

3. Configure the multihomed links with an ESI.

Assign each multihomed interface into the ethernet segment—which is identified using the Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI)—that is hosting the Ethernet-connected server. Ensure traffic is passed over all multihomed links by configuring each link as all-active. The ESI values must match on all multihomed interfaces. Leaf 10 : Leaf 11:

233 Leaf 12:

4. Enable LACP and configure a system identifier.

The LACP system identifier must match on all multihomed interfaces. Leaf 10: Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

5. After committing the configuration, verify that the links on each leaf switch are in the Up state

Example:

6. Verify that LACP is operational on the multihomed links.

234

Enabling Storm Control

Storm control can be enabled as part of this building block. Storm control is used to prevent BUM traffic storms by monitoring BUM traffic levels and taking a specified action to limit BUM traffic forwarding when a specified traffic level—called the storm control level—is exceeded. See Understanding Storm Control for additional information on the feature. In this reference design, storm control is enabled on server-facing aggregated Ethernet interfaces to rate limit broadcast, unknown unicast, and multicast (BUM) traffic. If the amount of BUM traffic exceeds 1% of the available bandwidth on the aggregated Ethernet interface, storm control drops BUM traffic to prevent broadcast storms. To enable storm control:

1. Create the storm control profile that will be used to enable the feature. The interfaces that are

configured using the storm control profile are specified in this step.

Leaf Device:

2. Set the storm control configuration within the profile.

In this reference design, storm control is configured to strategically drop BUM traffic when the amount of BUM traffic exceeds 1% of all available interface bandwidth. NOTE: Dropping BUM traffic is the only supported storm control action in the Cloud Data Center architecture. NOTE: The storm control settings in this version of the reference design drop multicast traffic that exceeds the configured storm control threshold. If your network supports multicast-based applications, consider using a storm control configuration—such as the

235 no-multicast option in the storm-control-profiles statement—that is not represented in this reference design. Storm control settings in support of multicast-based applications will be included in a future version of this reference design.

3. To verify storm control activity, filter system log messages related to storm control by entering the

show log messages | match storm command.

Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History

Table 7 on page 235 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

Table 7: Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

EVPN Multihoming Overview

236

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and

Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 239 Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 241 Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 241 Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 250 Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices | 257 Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device | 264 A second overlay option for this reference design is the edge-routed bridging overlay, as shown in Figure 53 on page 237.

237

Figure 53: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

The edge-routed bridging overlay performs routing at IRB interfaces located at the edge of the overlay (most often at the leaf devices). As a result, Ethernet bridging and IP routing happen as close to the end systems as possible, but still support Ethernet dependent applications at the end system level. You can configure edge-routed bridging overlay architectures using the traditional IPv4 EBGP underlay with IPv4 IBGP overlay, peering, or alternatively (with supported platforms) use an IPv6 EBGP underlay with IPv6 EBGP overlay peering. The configuration procedures in this section describe the configuration differences, where applicable, with an IPv6 Fabric instead of an IPv4 Fabric. For a list of devices that we support as lean spine and leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay, see the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page

51. That list includes which devices support an IPv6 Fabric when serving in different device roles.

238 Lean spine devices handle only IP traffic, which removes the need to extend the bridging overlay to the lean spine devices. With this limited role, on these devices you configure only the IP fabric underlay and BGP overlay peering (either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric). On the leaf devices, you can configure an edge-routed bridging overlay using the default switch instance or using MAC-VRF instances. NOTE: Keep the following in mind when you configure an ERB overlay for an EVPN- VXLAN network:

• On any Junos OS Evolved devices, we support EVPN-VXLAN configurations with

MAC-VRF instances only.

• We support the IPv6 Fabric infrastructure design with MAC-VRF instances only.

• On the QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches in the EVPN fabric, make sure you

configure the host-profile unified forwarding profile to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details): set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile Some configuration steps that affect the Layer 2 configuration differ with MAC-VRF instances. Likewise, a few steps differ for IPv6 Fabric configurations. The leaf device configuration includes the following steps:

• Configure the default instance with the loopback interface as a VTEP source interface. Or if your

configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, configure a MAC-VRF instance with the loopback interface as a VTEP source interface. If your fabric uses an IPv6 Fabric, you configure the VTEP source interface as an IPv6 interface. In each MAC-VRF instance, you also configure a service type, a route distinguisher, and a route target.

• Configure a leaf-to-end system aggregated Ethernet interface as a trunk to carry multiple VLANs.

With MAC-VRF instances, you also include the interface in the MAC-VRF instance.

• Establish LACP and ESI functionality.

• Map VLANs to VXLAN network identifiers (VNIs). For a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you

configure the VLAN to VNI mappings in the MAC-VRF instance.

• Configure proxy-macip-advertisement, virtual gateways, and static MAC addresses on the IRB

interfaces.

• Configure EVPN/VXLAN in the default instance or in the MAC-VRF instance.

239

• Enable Layer 3 (L3) tenant virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances and IP prefix route

properties for EVPN Type 5.

• Optionally enable symmetric IRB routing with EVPN Type 2 routes on the leaf devices. Symmetric

Type 2 routing avoids scaling issue when your EVPN network has many VLANs and many attached hosts or servers. With symmetric Type 2 routing, on each leaf device you only need to configure the VLANs that leaf devices serves. We support symmetric Type 2 routing only with MAC-VRF EVPN instances. For an overview of edge-routed bridging overlays, see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay" on page 19 in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. For more information about MAC-VRF instances and using them in an example customer use case with an edge-routed bridging overlay, see EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC-VRF L2 Services. The following sections show the steps to configure and verify the edge-routed bridging overlay: Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device To enable the edge-routed bridging overlay on a lean spine device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure 54 on page 240.

240

Figure 54: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay – Lean Spine Devices

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a spine

device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81. If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead. Those instructions include how to configure the IPv6 underlay connectivity with EBGP and IPv6 overlay peering.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine device,

see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, you don’t need this step. Step 1 also covers how to configure the EBGP IPv6 overlay peering that corresponds to the IPv6 underlay connectivity configuration.

241 Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device To verify that IBGP is functional on a lean spine device, use the show bgp summary command as described in "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. In the output that displays, ensure that the state of the lean spine device and its peers is Establ (established). Use the same command if you have an IPv6 Fabric. In the output, look for the IPv6 addresses of the peer device interconnecting interfaces (for underlay EBGP peering) or peer device loopback addresses (for overlay EBGP peering). Ensure that the state is Establ (established). Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device To enable the edge-routed bridging overlay on a leaf device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure 55 on page 242.

242

Figure 55: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay – Leaf Devices

1. Configure the fabric underlay and overlay:

For an IP Fabric underlay using IPv4:

• Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric

Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

• Confirm that your IBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure IBGP overlay peering on

your leaf device, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. For an IPv6 fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering:

• Ensure the IPv6 underlay is in place and the EBGP overlay peering is up and running. To

configure an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.

243

2. Configure the loopback interface as a VTEP source interface.

If your configuration uses the default instance, you use statements at the [edit switch-options] hierarchy level, as follows:

Leaf 10 (Default Instance):

If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, define a routing instance of type mac-vrf, and configure these statements at that MAC-VRF routing instance hierarchy level. You also must configure a service type for the MAC-VRF instance. We use the vlan-aware service type here so you can associate multiple VLANs with the MAC-VRF instance. This setting is consistent with the alternative configuration that uses the default instance.

Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):

If you have an IPv6 Fabric (supported only with MAC-VRF instances), in this step you include the inet6 option when you configure the VTEP source interface to use the device loopback address. This option enables IPv6 VXLAN tunneling in the fabric. This is the only difference in the MAC-VRF configuration with an IPv6 Fabric as compared to the MAC-VRF configuration with an IPv4 Fabric. Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance with an IPv6 Fabric):

3. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on devices in the QFX5000 line running Junos

OS.

244 A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS because those devices can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. You also don’t need to configure this option on devices running Junos OS Evolved, where shared tunnels are enabled by default. Include the following statement to globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device: NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.

4. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on

all interfaces) on the device:

5. Configure the leaf-to-end system aggregated Ethernet interface as a trunk carrying four VLANs.

Include the appropriate ESI and LACP values for your topology. Leaf 10: NOTE: When configuring ESI-LAGs on the QFX5000 line of switches that serve as leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay, keep in mind that we currently

245 support only the Enterprise style of interface configuration, which is shown in this step. If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, you must also add the configured aggregated Ethernet interface to the MAC-VRF instance:

6. Configure the mapping of VLANs to VNIs and associate one IRB interface per VLAN.

This step shows the VLAN to VNI mapping and IRB interface association either in the default instance or in a MAC-VRF instance configuration.

Leaf 10 (Default Instance):

Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):

The only difference with a MAC-VRF instance configuration is that you configure these statements in the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level.

246

7. Configure the IRB interfaces for VNIs 50000 and 60000 with both IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack

addresses for both the IRB IP address and virtual gateway IP address. There are two methods for configuring gateways for IRB interfaces:

• Method 1: Unique IRB IP Address with Virtual Gateway IP Address, which is shown in Step 7.

• Method 2: IRB with Anycast IP Address and MAC Address, which is shown in Step 8.

Leaf 10:

8. Configure the IRB interfaces for VNIs 70000 and 80000 with a dual stack Anycast IP address.

Leaf 10:

247 For more information about IRB and virtual gateway IP address configuration, see the IRB Addressing Models in Bridging Overlays section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

9. Enable the ping operation for IRB interfaces 500 and 600, which are configured in Step 6.

10. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation on the leaf device.

This step shows how to configure either the default instance or a MAC-VRF instance.

Leaf 10 (Default Instance):

Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):

The only difference with a MAC-VRF configuration is that you configure these statements in the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level.

11. Configure a policy called EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES to match on and accept /32 and /128 host

routes, direct routes, and static routes. You will use this policy in step 13.

248

12. Configure the loopback interface with two logical interfaces. (You will assign one logical interface to

each VRF routing instance in the next step).

13. Configure two tenant VRF routing instances, one for VNIs 50000 and 60000 (VRF 3), and one for

VNIs 70000 and 80000 (VRF 4). Assign one logical interface from the loopback to each routing instance so that the VXLAN gateway can resolve ARP requests. Configure IP prefix route properties for EVPN Type 5 to advertise ARP routes to the spine devices. Enable load balancing for L3 VPNs (set the multipath option). Leaf 10:

249

14. (Required on ACX7100 routers only) Set the reject-asymmetric-vni option in the VRF routing

instances where you enable Type 5 IP prefix routes. This option configures the device to reject EVPN Type 5 route advertisements with asymmetric VNIs—the device doesn’t accept traffic from the control plane with a received VNI that doesn’t match the locally configured VNI. We support only symmetric VNI routes on these devices.

15. Set up dummy IPv4 and IPv6 static routes for each tenant VRF instance, which enable the device to

advertise at least one EVPN Type 5 route for the VRF. We include this step because all devices with Type 5 routes configured must advertise at least one route for forwarding to work. The device must receive at least one EVPN Type 5 route from a peer device and install an IP forwarding route in the Packet Forwarding Engine. Otherwise, the device doesn’t install the next hop required to deencapsulate the received traffic and doesn’t forward the traffic. Leaf 10:

16. If you are configuring a QFX5110, QFX5120-48Y, or QFX5120-32C switch, you must perform this

step to support pure EVPN Type 5 routes on ingress EVPN traffic. NOTE: Entering the overlay-ecmp statement causes the Packet Forwarding Engine to restart, which interrupts forwarding operations. We recommend using this configuration statement before the EVPN-VXLAN network becomes operational.

17. If you are configuring a QFX5110, QFX5120-48Y, or QFX5120-32C switch, and you expect that

there will be more than 8000 ARP table entries and IPv6 neighbor entries, perform this step.

250 Configure the maximum number of next hops reserved for use in the EVPN-VXLAN overlay network. By default, the switch allocates 8000 next hops for use in the overlay network. See nexthop for more details. NOTE: Changing the number of next hops causes the Packet Forwarding Engine to restart, which interrupts forwarding operations. We recommend using this configuration statement before the EVPN-VXLAN network becomes operational. Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device To verify that the edge-routed bridging overlay is working, run the following commands. The commands here show output for a default instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you can alternatively use:

• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this

section.

• The show mac-vrf routing database command, which is an alias for the show evpn database command in this

section. The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing instances as this section shows for the default instance. One main difference you might see is in the output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format: where:

• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.

• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical

interface.

251 For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this: If your configuration uses an IPv6 Fabric, you provide IPv6 address parameters where applicable. Output from the commands that display IP addresses reflect the IPv6 device and interface addresses from the underlying fabric. See "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 for the fabric parameters reflected in command outputs in this section with an IPv6 Fabric.

1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interface is operational.

2. Verify the VLAN information (associated ESIs, VTEPs, etc.).

252 Note: esi.7585 is the ESI of the remote aggregated Ethernet link for Leaf 4, Leaf 5, and Leaf 6. Note: esi.7587 is the ESI for all leaf devices that have the same VNI number (Leaf 4, Leaf 5, Leaf 6, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12). Note: esi.8133 is the ESI for the local aggregated Ethernet interface shared with Leaf 11 and Leaf 12.

3. Verify the ARP table.

253 Note: 10.1.4.201 and 10.1.5.201 are remote end systems connected to the QFX5110 switches; and 10.1.4.202 and 10.1.5.202 are local end systems connected to Leaf 10 through interface ae11.

254

4. Verify the MAC addresses and ARP information in the EVPN database.

For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:

255 Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:

256

5. Verify the IPv4 and IPv6 end system routes appear in the forwarding table.

257

SEE ALSO

MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview

Example: Configuring an EVPN-VXLAN Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Within a Data Center Example: Configuring a QFX5110 Switch as Layer 2 and 3 VXLAN Gateways in an EVPN-VXLAN

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf

Devices

In EVPN-VXLAN ERB overlay networks, by default, leaf devices use an asymmetric IRB model with EVPN Type 2 routes to send traffic between subnets across the VXLAN tunnels, where:

• L3 routing for inter-subnet traffic happens at the ingress device. Then the source VTEP forwards

traffic at L2 toward the destination VTEP.

• The traffic arrives at the destination VTEP, and that VTEP forwards the traffic on the destination

VLAN.

258

• For this model to work, you must configure all source and destination VLANs and their corresponding

VNIs on all leaf devices. You can alternatively enable symmetric IRB routing with Type 2 routes (called symmetric Type 2 routing here for brevity). We support symmetric Type 2 routing only in ERB overlay fabrics. To use the symmetric IRB model to route traffic for a VRF, you must enable it in that VRF on all the leaf devices in the fabric. However, you don't need to configure all VLANs and VNIs in the VRF on all leaf devices. On each leaf device, you can configure only the host VLANs that leaf device serves. As a result, using symmetric Type 2 routing helps with scaling when your EVPN network has a large number of VLANs and many attached hosts or servers. We highlight this benefit here when we show how to enable symmetric Type 2 routing in the ERB overlay reference architecture in this chapter. With the symmetric Type 2 routing model, the VTEPs route between subnets in a tenant VRF instance using the same VNI in either direction. Symmetric Type 2 routing for a VRF shares the L3 VNI tunnel you configure for EVPN Type 5 routing in the VRF. The implementation requires you to also configure EVPN Type 5 routing in the VRF. See Symmetric Integrated Routing and Bridging with EVPN Type 2 Routes in EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics for more details on asymmetric and symmetric IRB routing models, and how symmetric Type 2 routing works. In this section, you update the configuration for the EVPN instance MAC-VRF-1 from "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241 to include four more VLANs, VNI mappings, and corresponding IRB interfaces. You include the IRB interfaces in another tenant VRF called VRF_2 as follows:

• Leaf 10—IRB 100

• Leaf 11—IRB 200

• Leaf 12—IRB 300 and IRB 400

See Figure 56 on page 259. The VNI for the L3 VNI tunnel in the figure is the VNI you configure for EVPN Type 5 routing in VRF_2. We enable symmetric Type 2 routing with the same VNI in VRF_2. Again, note that with symmetric Type 2 routing, you don't need to configure all VLANs in the VRF on all leaf devices.

259 Figure 56: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay—Leaf Devices with Symmetric IRB Type 2 Routing You must configure the EVPN instance using instance type MAC-VRF on the leaf devices in the ERB overlay fabric according to the instructions in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241. Use a different route distinguisher on each leaf device—in this configuration, the route distinguishers mirror the device lo0.0 loopback addresses on the device. This configuration includes the same MAC-VRF instance and the same instance vrf-target value, but these don't need to be the same on all the leaf devices for symmetric Type 2 routing to work. To enable symmetric Type 2 routing on the leaf devices according to Figure 56 on page 259, perform these additional configuration steps as indicated in each step for Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12.

260

1. Configure the aggregated Ethernet interface ae11 trunk interface to carry the additional VLANs 100,

200, 300, and 400 (named VNI_10000, VNI_20000, VNI_30000, and VNI_40000, respectively) as the figure shows for the different leaf devices. Leaf 10: Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

2. In the MAC-VRF EVPN instance, configure the VLANs, their associated IRB interfaces, and the VLAN

to VNI mappings, as the figure shows. Leaf 10 (VLAN 100): Leaf 11 (VLAN 200): Leaf 12 (VLANs 300 and 400):

261

3. Configure the IRB interfaces for VLANs 100, 200, 300 and 400 on their respective leaf devices with

IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack addresses for the IRB IP addresses and virtual gateway IP addresses. Here we use the same style of IRB interface configuration as VLAN 500 and VLAN 600 in VRF_3 (see Step 7 in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241). Assign each IRB interface a unique IP address with a virtual gateway IP address (VGA) and a virtual gateway MAC address (the virtual gateway MAC is the same for all leaf devices). Leaf 10 (IRB 100): Leaf 11 (IRB 200): Leaf 12 (IRB 300 and IRB 400):

262

4. Enable ping for the IRB interfaces for VLANs 100, 200, 300, and 400 on their respective leaf devices.

Leaf 10: Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

5. Configure the additional VRF instance VRF_2 on all three leaf devices, similarly to how you configure

the other VRF instances in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241, Step 13. Assign a logical loopback interface (we use unit 2 in this case) to the new VRF instance so that the VXLAN gateway can resolve ARP requests. Include the IRB interfaces in VRF_2 for the VLANs supported on each leaf device in Figure 56 on page 259. Note that on each device, we assign a VRF route distinguisher that is unique to the device (based on the device lo0.0 address for simplicity). However, we use the same VRF route target on all the devices. Leaf 10:

263 Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

6. Enable EVPN Type 5 routing in VRF_2, and assign an L3 transit VNI value for Type 5 routing. We

configure VNI value 16777123 here. Similarly to how you configure the VRF instances and Type 5 routing in the other VRF instances in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241, Step 13, in this step we also:

• Enable L3 load balancing by setting the multipath option for IPv4 and IPv6 traffic.

• Set up at least one dummy IPv4 and IPv6 route for the new tenant VRF instance, so the device

can advertise at least one EVPN Type 5 route in the VRF. However, we don't apply the EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES export policy for IP prefix routes from that step. For the devices to invoke symmetric Type 2 routing instead of Type 5 routing, we don't configure this Type 5 export policy in VRF_2 on the leaf devices. Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12:

264 NOTE: ACX7100 routers and QFX5210 switches don't support asymmetric VNI values on either side of a VXLAN tunnel for a given VRF. To support EVPN Type 5 routing and symmetric IRB routing with EVPN Type 2 routes on those platforms, you must configure the same L3 VNI value for a particular VRF on each of the leaf devices. On other platforms, the L3 VNI can be different on either side of the tunnel for a given VRF. For simplicity, this step uses the same L3 VNI for VRF_2 on all leaf devices.

7. Enable symmetric Type 2 routing for VRF_2 on the leaf devices using the irb-symmetric-routing

configuration statement at the [edit routing-instances l3-vrf-name protocols evpn] hierarchy level. In Step 6 of this procedure, when you configure VRF instance VRF_2, you enable Type 5 routing and assign VNI 16777123 for the Type 5 VXLAN tunnel. You use the same VNI value when you enable symmetric Type 2 routing for VRF_2. Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12: Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device In "Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices" on page 257, you enable symmetric Type 2 routing in VRF_2 on:

• Leaf 10 for VLAN 100 with VNI 10000, irb.100 = 10.1.0.1/24

• Leaf 11 for VLAN 200 with VNI 20000, irb.200 = 10.1.1.1/24

• Leaf 12 for:

• VLAN 300 with VNI 30000, irb.300 = 10.1.2.1/24

• VLAN 400 with VNI 40000, irb.400 = 10.1.3.1/24

In this section, on Leaf 10, we view routes toward Leaf 11 to verify that the leaf devices invoke symmetric Type 2 routing.

265

1. Verify that Leaf 10 adds IP host routes to the VRF_2 routing table for the remote EVPN Type 2 MAC-

IP route toward Leaf 11.

2. Verify that the device advertises EVPN Type 2 MAC-IP routes with the VRF_2 L3 context and the L3

transit VNI you configured for VRF_2. From the configuration in "Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices" on page 257:

• The vrf-target of MAC-VRF-1 is target:64512:1111.

• The vrf-target for VRF_2 is target:62273:20000.

• The route distinguisher for VRF_2 on Leaf 11 is 192.168.1.11:200.

• The L3 transit VNI for EVPN Type 5 routing and symmetric Type 2 routing is 16777123.

266

267

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

ip-prefix-routes proxy-macip-advertisement virtual-gateway-address

EVPN Overview

Understanding VXLANs

Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation

Configuring EVPN Routing Instances

Example: Configuring an ESI on a Logical Interface With EVPN Multihoming

Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN

Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches

Routing Instances Overview

Example: Configuring VNI Route Targets Manually

Symmetric Integrated Routing and Bridging with EVPN Type 2 Routes in EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics

Routed Overlay Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 269 Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 270 Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 272 Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 274

Routed Overlay — Release History | 280

A third overlay option for this Cloud Data Center reference design is a routed overlay, as shown in Figure 57 on page 268.

268

Figure 57: Routed Overlay

The routed overlay service supports IP-connected end systems that interconnect with leaf devices using IP (not Ethernet). The end systems can use dynamic routing protocols to exchange IP routing information with the leaf devices. The IP addresses and prefixes of the end systems are advertised as EVPN type-5 routes and imported by other EVPN/VXLAN-enabled spine and leaf devices into a corresponding VRF routing instance. To implement a routed overlay, you must use one of the QFX10000 line of switches as the leaf devices. (The QFX5110 is planned to be verified in a future revision of this guide.) On the spine devices, create a VRF routing instance to accept the EVPN type-5 routes. Include route distinguishers and route targets, use the advertise direct-nexthop option, and configure the same VNI used by the leaf devices. To configure the leaf devices, create a policy that matches on the BGP routes received from the end systems, and send these routes into a VRF routing instance enabled for EVPN type-5 routes so they can be shared with other leaf and spine devices in the same IP VNI. For an overview of routed overlays, see the Routed Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

269 The following sections show the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the routed overlay: Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device To configure the routed overlay on a spine device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure 58 on page 269.

Figure 58: Routed Overlay – Spine Devices

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a spine

device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine device,

see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

270

3. Create a VRF routing instance that enables the EVPN type-5 option (also known as IP prefix routes).

Configure a route distinguisher and route target, provide load balancing for EVPN type-5 routes with the multipath ECMP option, enable EVPN to advertise direct next hops, specify VXLAN encapsulation, and assign the VNI. NOTE: This VRF can be used for north-south traffic flow and will be explained in a future version of this guide. Spine 1: Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device To verify that the routed overlay on a spine device is working, perform the following:

1. Verify that the EVPN type-5 routes are being advertised and received for IPv4 and IPv6.

EVPN to IPv4 Imported Prefixes

271

2. Verify that the end system is multihomed to all three QFX10000 leaf devices for both IPv4 and IPv6.

272 Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device To configure the routed overlay on a leaf device, perform the following: NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure 59 on page 273.

273

Figure 59: Routed Overlay – Leaf Devices

1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a leaf

device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.

2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf device,

see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

3. Configure a VRF routing instance to extend EBGP peering to an end system. Specify a route target,

route distinguisher, and the IP address and ASN (AS 4220000001) of the IP-connected end system to allow the leaf device and end system to become BGP neighbors. To learn how to implement IP multihoming, see "Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 281. NOTE: Each VRF routing instance in the network should have a unique route distinguisher. In this reference design, the route distinguisher is a combination of the loopback interface IP address of the device combined with a unique identifier to signify the device. For VRF 5, the loopback interface IP address on Leaf 10 is 192.168.1.10 and the ID is 15, making the route distinguisher 192.168.1.10:15.

274 Leaf 10:

4. Create a policy to match direct routes and BGP routes.

Leaf 10:

5. Complete your configuration of the VRF routing instance by configuring the EVPN type-5 option. To

implement this feature, configure EVPN to advertise direct next hops such as the IP-connected end system, specify VXLAN encapsulation, assign the VNI, and export the BGP policy that accepts the end system routes. Leaf 10: Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device NOTE: The operational mode command output included in the following sections assumes you have configured IP multihoming as explained in "Multihoming an IP- Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 281. To verify that the routed overlay on a leaf device is working, perform the following:

275

1. Verify that the IPv4 routes from the VRF are converted to EVPN type-5 routes are advertised to

EVPN peers.

IPv4 to EVPN Exported Prefixes

IPv6 to EVPN Exported Prefixes

EVPN to IPv6 Imported Prefixes

276

2. View the VRF route table for IPv4, IPv6, and EVPN to verify that the end system routes and spine

device routes are being exchanged. This is the IPv4 section

277 This is the IPv6 section This is the EVPN section. EVPN routes use the following convention:

Type:Route Distinguisher::0::IP Address::Prefix/NLRI Prefix

278

279

280

SEE ALSO

Understanding EVPN Pure Type-5 Routes

ip-prefix-routes

Routed Overlay — Release History

Table 8 on page 280 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 8: Routed Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design – Release History 19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

EVPN Overview

Understanding VXLANs

Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation

Configuring EVPN Routing Instances

Routing Instances Overview

281

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design

and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device | 282 Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End System | 283

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History | 284

For an overview of multihoming an IP-connected end system, see the Multihoming Support for IP- Connected End Systems section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. Figure 60 on page 281 illustrates the multihomed IP-connected end system—in this procedure, the end system is an IP-connected server—that is enabled using this procedure:

Figure 60: Multihomed IP-Connected End System Example

282 NOTE: This configuration uses one VLAN per leaf device access interface. See Configuring a Layer 3 Subinterface (CLI Procedure) to enable VLAN tagging if your setup requires multiple VLANs per leaf device access interface. Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device To configure the IP address of each end system-facing interface on the leaf devices:

1. Configure an IP address on each end system-facing leaf device interface, and put the interface in a

VRF. Leaf 10: NOTE: The VRF_5 routing instance was configured earlier in this guide with this EBGP configuration. See "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 267. Leaf 11: Leaf 12: NOTE: The VRF_5 routing instance was not explicitly configured for Leaf 11 and 12 earlier in this guide.

283 To configure the VRF_5 routing instance to run on Leaf 11 and 12, repeat the procedures in "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 267 for these leaf devices. Be sure to configure a unique route distinguisher for each route to ensure that each leaf device route is treated as a unique route by the route reflectors.

2. After committing the configuration, confirm that each link is up and that the IP address is properly

assigned. Sample output from Leaf 10 only is provided in this step. Leaf 10: Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End

System

EBGP—which is already used in this reference design to pass routes between spine and leaf devices in the underlay network—is also used in this reference design to pass routes between the IP-connected server and a leaf device. NOTE: Other routing protocols can be used to pass routes between an IP-connected end system and the leaf device. However this is not recommended. To configure EBGP between a leaf device and an IP-connected end system:

1. Configure EBGP in a VRF routing instance.

Leaf 10:

2. Repeat this procedure on all leaf device interfaces that are multihomed to the IP-connected end

system.

284 Leaf 11: Leaf 12:

3. After committing the configurations, confirm that BGP is operational.

A sample of this verification procedure on Leaf 10 is provided below. Leaf 10:

Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History

Table 9 on page 285 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

285

Table 9: Multihoming IP-Connected End Systems Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

EVPN Multihoming Overview

Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267 Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236

Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network | 288 How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network | 292 How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the Underlay and Overlay Networks | 294 How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 296 How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 302 To enable you to scale your existing EVPN-VXLAN network in a data center, Juniper Networks supports a 5-stage IP fabric. Although a 5-stage IP fabric is actually comprised of 3 tiers of networking devices, the term 5-stage refers to the number of network devices that traffic sent from one host to another must traverse to reach its destination.

286 Juniper Networks supports a 5-stage IP fabric in an inter-point of delivery (POD) connectivity use case within a data center. This use case assumes that your EVPN-VXLAN network already includes tiers of spine and leaf devices in two PODs. To enable connectivity between the two PODs, you add a tier of super spine devices. To determine which Juniper Networks devices you can use as a super spine device, see the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51 table. Figure 61 on page 286 shows the 5-stage IP fabric that we use in this reference design. Figure 61: Sample 5-Stage IP Fabric As shown in Figure 61 on page 286, each super spine device is connected to each spine device in each POD. We support the following network overlay type combinations in each POD:

• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has a centrally routed bridging overlay.

• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has an edge-routed bridging overlay.

• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in one POD has a centrally routed bridging overlay, and the fabric in the

other POD has an edge-routed bridging overlay. Juniper Network’s 5-stage IP fabric supports RFC 7938, Use of BGP for Routing in Large-Scale Data Centers. However, where appropriate, we use terminology that more effectively describes our use case.

287 Note the following about the 5-stage IP fabric reference design:

• This reference design assumes that the tiers of spine and leaf devices in the two PODs already exist

and are up and running. As a result, except when describing how to configure the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes, this topic provides the configuration for the super spine devices only. For information about configuring the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs, see the following:

• "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81

• "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97

• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172

• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236

• "Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation" on page 523

• "Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation" on page 533

• The reference design integrates Super Spines 1 and 2 into existing IP fabric underlay and EVPN

overlay networks.

• The super spine devices have the following functions:

• They act as IP transit devices only.

• They serve as route reflectors for Spines 1 through 4.

• When configuring the routing protocol in the EVPN overlay network, you can use either IBGP or

EBGP. Typically, you use IBGP if your data center uses the same autonomous system (AS) number throughout and EBGP if your data center uses different AS numbers throughout. This reference design uses the IBGP configuration option. For information about the EBGP configuration option, see Over-the-Top Data Center Interconnect in an EVPN Network.

• After you integrate Super Spines 1 and 2 into existing IP fabric underlay and EVPN overlay networks

and verify the configuration, the super spine devices will handle the communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes. This method will work if your PODs use the same IP address subnet scheme. However, if servers connected to the leaf devices in each POD are in different subnets, you must configure the devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to advertise EVPN type-5 routes. For more information, see How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs later in this topic.

288 How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay

Network

This section shows you how to configure the super spine devices so that they can communicate with the spine devices, which are already configured as part of an existing IP fabric underlay network. For details about the interfaces and autonomous systems (ASs) in the IP fabric underlay network, see Figure 62 on page 288. Figure 62: Integrating Super Spine Devices into an Existing IP Fabric Underlay Network

1. Configure the interfaces that connect the super spine devices to Spines 1 through 4.

For the connection to each spine device, we create an aggregated Ethernet interface that currently includes a single link. We use this approach in case you need to increase the throughput to each spine device at a later time. For interface details for the super spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288.

289 Super Spine 1 Super Spine 2

2. Specify an IP address for loopback interface lo0.0.

We use the loopback address for each super spine device when setting up an export routing policy later in this procedure. Super Spine 1 Super Spine 2

3. Configure the router ID.

We use the router ID for each super spine device when setting up the route reflector cluster in the EVPN overlay network.

290 Super Spine 1 Super Spine 2

4. Create a BGP peer group named underlay-bgp, and enable EBGP as the routing protocol in the

underlay network. Super Spines 1 and 2

5. Configure the AS number.

In this reference design, each device is assigned a unique AS number in the underlay network. For the AS numbers of the super spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288. The AS number for EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using the local-as statement because the system AS number setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the EVPN overlay network. Super Spine 1 Super Spine 2

6. Set up a BGP peer relationship with Spines 1 through 4.

To establish the peer relationship, on each super spine device, configure each spine device as a neighbor by specifying the spine device’s IP address and AS number. For the IP addresses and AS numbers of the spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288. Super Spine 1

291 Super Spine 2

7. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IP address of loopback interface lo0.0 on the

super spine devices to the EBGP peering devices (Spines 1 through 4). This policy rejects all other advertisements. Super Spines 1 and 2

8. Enable multipath with the multiple-as option, which enables load balancing between EBGP peers in

different ASs. EBGP, by default, selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table. When BGP multipath is enabled, all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the forwarding table. Super Spines 1 and 2

9. Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for all BGP sessions to enable the rapid detection of

failures and reconvergence. Super Spines 1 and 2

292 How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay

Network

This section explains how to integrate the super spine devices into the EVPN overlay network. In this control-plane driven overlay, we establish a signalling path between all devices within a single AS using IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP). In this IBGP overlay, the super spine devices act as a route reflector cluster, and the spine devices are route reflector clients. For details about the route reflector cluster ID and BGP neighbor IP addresses in the EVPN overlay network, see Figure 63 on page 292. Figure 63: Integrating Super Spine Devices into Existing EVPN Overlay Network

1. Configure an AS number for the IBGP overlay.

All devices participating in this overlay (Super Spines 1 and 2, Spines 1 through 4, Leafs 1 through 4) must use the same AS number. In this example, the AS number is private AS 4210000001. Super Spines 1 and 2

293

2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling to peer with Spines 1 through 4. Also, form the route reflector

cluster (cluster ID 192.168.2.10), and configure equal cost multipath (ECMP) for BGP. Enable path maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size on the network path between the source and the destination, with the goal of avoiding IP fragmentation. For details about the route reflector cluster ID and BGP neighbor IP addresses for super spine and spine devices, see Figure 63 on page 292. Super Spine 1 Super Spine 2 NOTE: This reference design does not include the configuration of BGP peering between Super Spines 1 and 2. However, if you want to set up this peering to complete the full mesh peering topology, you can optionally do so by creating another BGP group and specifying the configuration in that group. For example: Super Spine 1

294 set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 type internal set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 local-address 192.168.2.1 set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 family evpn signaling set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 neighbor 192.168.2.2 Super Spine 2 set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 type internal set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 local-address 192.168.2.2 set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 family evpn signaling set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 neighbor 192.168.2.1

3. Enable BFD for all BGP sessions to enable rapid detection of failures and reconvergence.

Super Spines 1 and 2 How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the

Underlay and Overlay Networks

This section explains how you can verify that the super spine devices are properly integrated into the IP fabric underlay and EVPN overlay networks. After you successfully complete this verification, the super spine devices will handle communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes. This method will work if your PODs use the same IP address subnet scheme. However, if each POD uses a different IP address subnet scheme, you must additionally configure the devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to advertise EVPN type-5 routes. For more information, see How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs later in this topic.

1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are enabled, that the physical links are up, and that

packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent. The output below provides this verification for aggregated Ethernet interface ae1 on Super Spine 1.

295

2. Verify that the BGP is up and running.

The output below verifies that EBGP and IBGP peer relationships with Spines 1 through 4 are established and that traffic paths are active.

296

3. Verify that BFD is working.

The output below verifies that BGP sessions between Super Spine 1 and Spines 1 through 4 are established and in the Up state. How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs After you complete the tasks in the following sections, the super spine devices will handle communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes.

297

• How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network

• How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network

• How to Verify the Integration of the Super Spine Devices Into the Underlay and Overlay Networks

If servers connected to the leaf devices in both PODs are in the same subnet, you can skip the task in this section. However, if servers in each POD are in different subnets, you must further configure the devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to advertise EVPN type-5 routes as described in this section. This type of route is also known as an IP prefix route. In this EVPN type-5 reference design, the EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has a centrally routed bridging overlay. In this type of overlay, the spine devices handle inter-subnet routing. Therefore, this section explains how to enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes on the spine devices in PODs 1 and 2. To enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes, you set up a tenant routing instance named VRF-1 on each spine device. In the routing instance, you specify which host IP addresses and prefixes that you want a spine device to advertise as EVPN type-5 routes with a VXLAN network identifier (VNI) of

500001. A spine device will advertise the EVPN type-5 routes to the other spine and leaf devices within

the same POD. The spine device will also advertise the EVPN type-5 routes to the super spine devices, which will in turn advertise the routes to the spine devices in the other POD. All spine devices on which you have configured VRF-1 will import the EVPN type-5 routes into their VRF-1 routing table. After you enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes, the super spine devices will handle communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-5 routes. Figure 64 on page 298 shows the EVPN type-5 configuration details for the inter-POD use case.

298 Figure 64: Advertisement of EVPN-Type-5 Routes Between PODs 1 and 2 Table 10 on page 298 outlines the VLAN ID to IRB interface mappings for this reference design.

Table 10: VLAN ID to IRB Interface Mappings

Spines 1 and 2 in POD 1 VLAN BD-1 irb.1 VLAN BD-2 irb.2 Spines 3 and 4 in POD 2

299 Table 10: VLAN ID to IRB Interface Mappings (Continued) To set up the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes:

1. Create loopback interface lo0.1, and specify that is in the IPv4 address family.

For example: Spine 1

2. Configure a routing instance of type vrf named VRF-1. In this routing instance, include loopback

interface lo0.1 so that the spine device, which acts as a VXLAN gateway, can resolve ARP requests and the IRB interfaces that correspond to each spine device (see Table 10 on page 298). Set a route distinguisher and VRF targets for the routing instance. Configure load balancing for EVPN type-5 routes with the multipath ECMP option. For example: Spine 1 Spine 2

300 Spine 3 Spine 4

3. Enable EVPN to advertise direct next hops, specify VXLAN encapsulation, and assign VNI 500001 to

the EVPN type-5 routes. For the configuration of Spines 1 through 4, use VNI 500001 in this configuration. For example:

301 Spine 1

4. Define an EVPN type-5 export policy named ExportHostRoutes for tenant routing instance VRF-1.

For example, the following configuration establishes that VRF-1 advertises all host IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and prefixes learned by EVPN and from networks directly connected to Spine 1. Spine 1

5. Apply the export policy named ExportHostRoutes to VRF-1.

For example: Spine 1

6. In this reference design, QFX5120-32C switches act as spine devices. For these switches and all

other QFX5XXX switches that act as spine devices in a centrally routed bridging overlay, you must perform the following additional configuration to properly implement EVPN pure type-5 routing. Spines 1 through 4

302 How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs To verify that the spine devices in this reference design are properly advertising EVPN type-5 routes:

1. View the VRF route table to verify that the end system routes and spine device routes are being

exchanged. The following snippet of output shows IPv4 routes only. Spine 1

303 Spine 3

304

305

2. Verify that EVPN type-5 IPv4 and IPv6 routes are exported and imported into the VRF-1 routing

instance. Spine 1

306 Spine 3

307

308

3. Verify the EVPN type-5 route encapsulation details. The following output shows the details for

specified prefixes. Spine 1

309

310

311 Spine 2

312

313

314

315

Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture | 318

Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 320 Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 328 Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches | 334 Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster and ToR Devices | 342 Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Configuration | 348 In collapsed spine fabrics, core EVPN-VXLAN overlay functions are collapsed only onto a spine layer. There is no leaf layer; the spine devices can interface directly to existing top-of-rack (ToR) switches in the access layer that might not support EVPN-VXLAN.

316 TOR switches can be multihomed to more than one spine device for access layer resiliency, which the spine devices manage using EVPN multihoming (also called ESI-LAG) the same way as the leaf devices do in other EVPN-VXLAN reference architectures. (See "Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229 for details.) The spine devices also assume any border device roles for connectivity outside the data center. Some common elements in collapsed spine architecture use cases include:

• Collapsed spine fabric with spine devices connected back-to-back:

In this model, the spine devices are connected with point-to-point links. The spine devices establish BGP peering in the underlay and overlay over those links using their loopback addresses. See Figure 65 on page 317. Alternatively, the collapsed spine core devices can be integrated with a route reflector cluster in a super spine layer, which is explained later (our reference architecture).

• Data center locations connected with Data Center Interconnect (DCI):

The spine devices can perform border gateway functions to establish EVPN peering between data centers, including Layer 2 stretch and Layer 3 connectivity, as Figure 65 on page 317 shows.

• Standalone switches or Virtual Chassis in the access layer:

The ToR layer can contain standalone switches or Virtual Chassis multihomed to the collapsed spine devices. With Virtual Chassis, you can establish redundant links in the ESI-LAGs between the spine devices and different Virtual Chassis member switches to increase resiliency. See Figure 66 on page 317. Figure 65 on page 317 shows a logical view of a collapsed spine data center with border connectivity, DCI between data centers, and Virtual Chassis in the ToR layer multihomed to the spine devices.

317 Figure 65: Collapsed Spine Data Center With Multihomed Virtual Chassis TOR Devices and Data

Center Interconnect

Figure 66 on page 317 illustrates Virtual Chassis in the ToR layer multihomed to a back-to-back collapsed spine layer, where the spine devices link to different Virtual Chassis member switches to improve ESI-LAG resiliency. Figure 66: Collapsed Spine Design With Back-to-Back Spine Devices and Multihomed Virtual Chassis in ToR Layer Refer to Collapsed Spine with EVPN Multihoming, a network configuration example that describes a common collapsed spine use case with back-to-back spine devices. In that example, the ToR devices are Virtual Chassis that are multihomed to the collapsed spine devices. The example includes how to

318 configure additional security services using an SRX chassis cluster to protect inter-tenant traffic, with inter-data center traffic also routed through the SRX cluster as a DCI solution. Another collapsed spine fabric model interconnects the spine devices through an IP transit layer route reflector cluster that you integrate with the collapsed spine core underlay and overlay networks. Our reference architecture uses this model and is described in the following sections.

Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture

Our reference architecture presents a use case for a collapsed spine data center fabric comprising two inter-point of delivery (POD) modules. The PODs and collapsed spine devices in the PODs are interconnected by a super spine IP transit layer configured as a route reflector cluster. See Figure 67 on page 319. This architecture is similar to a five-stage IP fabric design (see "Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation" on page 285), but with only the super spine, spine, and access layers. You configure the collapsed spine fabric to integrate the route reflector cluster devices into the IP fabric underlay and EVPN overlay in a similar way.

319 Figure 67: Collapsed Spine Fabric Integrated With a Route Reflector Cluster Figure 67 on page 319 shows an example of the collapsed spine reference design, which includes the following elements:

• POD 1: ToR 3 multihomed to Spine 1 and Spine 2

• POD 2: ToR 1 and ToR 2 multihomed to Spine 3 and Spine 4

• Route reflector cluster: RR 1 and RR 2 interconnecting Spine devices 1 through 4

The four spine devices make up the collapsed spine EVPN fabric core, with Layer 2 stretch and Layer 3 routing between the spine devices in the two PODs. The spine devices in each POD use ESI-LAGs to the multihomed ToR switches in the same POD.

320 Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the

Route Reflector Layer

This section describes how to configure the interconnecting links and the IP fabric underlay on the spine and route reflector devices. Figure 68 on page 320 shows the collapsed spine and route reflector devices connected by aggregated Ethernet interface links. Figure 68: Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture Underlay Integrated With Route Reflector Cluster To configure the underlay:

1. Before you configure the interfaces connecting the route reflector and spine devices in the fabric, on

each of those devices you must set the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces you might need on the device. The device assigns unique MAC addresses to each aggregated Ethernet interface you configure.

321 Configure the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on RR 1, RR 2, Spine 1, Spine 2, Spine 3, and Spine 4 :

2. Configure the aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the route reflector and spine devices that form the

collapsed spine fabric as shown in Figure 68 on page 320. For redundancy, this reference design uses two physical interfaces in each aggregated Ethernet link between the route reflector and spine devices. The route reflector devices link to the four spine devices using aggregated Ethernet interfaces ae1 through ae4. Each spine device uses aggregated Ethernet interfaces ae1 (to RR 1) and ae2 (to RR 2). Also, we configure a higher MTU (9192) on the physical interfaces to account for VXLAN encapsulation.

RR 1:

322

RR 2:

323 Spine 1: Spine 2:

324 Spine 3: Spine 4:

325

3. Configure IP addresses for the loopback interfaces and the router id for each route reflector and

spine device, as shown in Figure 68 on page 320.

4. On the route reflector and spine devices, configure the EBGP IP fabric underlay. The underlay

configuration is similar to other spine and leaf reference architecture designs in "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81. However, in the underlay in this reference design, the collapsed spine fabric is integrated with the route reflector devices for IP transit functions between the spine devices within and across the PODs. The underlay configuration includes the following:

• Define an export routing policy (underlay-clos-export) that advertises the IP address of the loopback

interface to EBGP peering devices. This export routing policy is used to make the IP address of the loopback interface of each device reachable by all devices in the IP fabric (all route reflector and spine devices).

• Define a local AS number on each device.

• On the route reflector devices: Identify the four spine devices as the EBGP neighbors by their

aggregated Ethernet link IP addresses and local AS numbers. On the spine devices: Identify the two route reflector devices as the EBGP neighbors by their aggregated Ethernet link IP addresses and local AS numbers.

• Turn on BGP peer state transition logging.

RR 1:

326

RR 2:

Spine 1:

327 Spine 2: Spine 3: Spine 4:

328

Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With

the Route Reflector Layer

In this design, the overlay is similar to other EVPN-VXLAN data center spine and leaf reference architectures, but doesn’t include a leaf layer. Only the spine devices (integrated with the route reflector cluster) do intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN routing in the fabric. We configure IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP) with a single autonomous system (AS) number on the spine devices to establish a signalling path between them by way of the route reflector cluster devices as follows:

• The route reflector cluster devices peer with the spine devices in both PODs for IP transit.

• The spine devices peer with the route reflector devices.

See Figure 69 on page 329, which illustrates the spine and route reflector cluster devices and BGP neighbor IP addresses we configure in the EVPN overlay network.

329 Figure 69: Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture Overlay Integrated With Route Reflector Cluster The overlay configuration is the same on both of the route reflector devices except for the device’s local address (the loopback address). The route reflector devices peer with all of the spine devices. The overlay configuration is the same on each of the spine devices except for the device’s local address (the loopback address). All of the spine devices peer with the route reflector cluster devices. We configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation and virtual tunnel endpoint (VTEP) interfaces only on the spine devices in the collapsed spine fabric. To configure the overlay:

1. Configure an AS number for the IBGP overlay on all spine and route reflector devices:

2. Configure IBGP with EVPN signaling on the route reflector devices to peer with the collapsed spine

devices, identified as IBGP neighbors by their device loopback addresses as illustrated in Figure 69 on page 329. In this step, you also:

• Define RR 1 and RR 2 as a route reflector cluster (with cluster ID 192.168.2.1).

330

• Enable path maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size

on the network path between the source and the destination, which can help avoid IP fragmentation.

• Set up Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for detecting IBGP neighbor failures.

• Set the vpn-apply-export option to ensure that both the VRF and BGP group or neighbor export

policies in the BGP configuration are applied (in that order) before the device advertises routes in the VPN routing tables to the other route reflector or spine devices. (See Distributing VPN Routes for more information.)

RR 1:

RR 2:

331

3. Configure IBGP with EVPN on the collapsed spine devices to peer with the route reflector devices,

which are identified as IBGP neighbors by their device loopback addresses shown in Figure 69 on page 329. The configuration is the same on all spine devices except you substitute the spine device’s loopback IP address for the local-address device-loopback-addr value. In this step you also:

• Enable path maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size

on the network path between the source and the destination, which can help avoid IP fragmentation.

• Set up BFD for detecting IBGP neighbor failures.

• Set the vpn-apply-export option to ensure that both the VRF and BGP group or neighbor export

policies in the BGP configuration are applied (in that order) before the device advertises routes in the VPN routing tables to the other route reflector or spine devices. (See Distributing VPN Routes for more information.) All spine devices:

332

4. Ensure LLDP is enabled on all interfaces except the management interface (em0) on the route reflector

cluster and spine devices. All route reflector and spine devices:

5. Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the overlay on the spine devices. The configuration is

the same on all spine devices in the collapsed spine fabric. In this step:

• Specify and apply a policy for per-packet load balancing for ECMP in the forwarding table.

• Configure these EVPN options at the [edit protocols evpn] hierarchy level along with setting

VXLAN encapsulation:

• default-gateway no-gateway-community: Advertise the virtual gateway and IRB MAC addresses to the

EVPN peer devices so that Ethernet-only edge devices can learn these MAC addresses. You configure no-gateway-community in a collapsed spine fabric if the spines use:

• Anycast IP as the gateway with a common anycast MAC address, or

• virtual-gateway-address with a VRRP-based MAC address (00:00:5e:00:01:XX) (see Step 5

in "Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches" on page 334.

• extended-vni-list all option: Allow all configured VXLAN network identifiers (VNIs) to be part of

this EVPN-VXLAN BGP domain. We configure VLANs and VLAN to VNI mappings in a later section.

• remote-ip-host-routes: Enable virtual machine traffic optimization (VMTO). (See "Ingress Virtual

Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN " on page 42 for more information.) All spine devices:

333

6. Configure VTEP, route target, and virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) switch options on the spine

devices. The configuration is the same on all spine devices except on each device you substitute the device’s loopback IP address for the route-distinguisher value. This value defines a unique route distinguisher for routes generated by each device. The VTEP source interface in the EVPN instance should also match the IBGP local peer address, which is likewise the device loopback IP address. Spine 1: Spine 2: Spine 3: Spine 4:

334

7. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on all

interfaces) on the device: Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches This collapsed spine reference design implements EVPN multihoming as described in "Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229, except because the leaf layer functions are collapsed into the spine layer, you configure the ESI-LAGs on the spine devices. You also configure VLANs and Layer 2 and Layer 3 routing functions on the spine devices in a similar way as you would on the leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay design. The core collapsed spine configuration implements a Layer 2 stretch by setting the same VLANs (and VLAN-to-VNI mappings) on all of the spine devices in both PODs. EVPN Type 2 routes enable communication between endpoints within and across the PODs. Figure 70 on page 335 shows the collapsed spine devices in each POD connected with aggregated Ethernet interface links to the multihomed ToR switches in the POD.

335 Figure 70: Collapsed Spine Fabric With Multihomed ToR Switches For brevity, this section illustrates one aggregated Ethernet link between each spine and each ToR device, with one interface configured on each aggregated Ethernet link from the spine devices to the ToR devices in the POD. This section covers configuration details only for the spine and ToR devices in POD 2. You can apply a similar configuration with applicable device parameters and interfaces to the spine and ToR devices in POD 1. The ToR devices include two interfaces in their aggregated Ethernet links, one to each spine device in the POD that form the ESI-LAG for multihoming. The configuration includes steps to:

336

• Configure the interfaces.

• Set up the ESI-LAGs for EVPN multihoming.

• Configure Layer 2 and Layer 3 gateway functions, including defining VLANs, the associated IRB

interfaces for inter-VLAN routing, and corresponding VLAN-to-VNI mappings.

1. Configure the interfaces and aggregated Ethernet links on the spines (Spine 3 and Spine 4) to the

multihomed ToR switches (ToR 1 and ToR 2) in POD 2. Spine 3: Spine 4:

2. Configure the ESI-LAGs for EVPN multihoming on the spine devices for the multihomed ToR

switches in POD 2. This design uses the same aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the spine devices to the ToR switches, so you use the same configuration on both devices. In this reference design, ae3 connects to ToR 1 and ae10 connects to ToR 2. Spine 3 and Spine 4:

337

3. Configure VLANs on the spine devices in POD 2 with ae3 and ae10 as VLAN members.

Spine 3 and Spine 4:

4. Map the VLANs to VNIs for the VXLAN tunnels and associate an IRB interface with each one.

Spine 3 and Spine 4:

338

5. Configure the IRB interfaces for the VLANs (VNIs) on the spine devices in POD 2 with IPv4 and IPv6

dual stack addresses for both the IRB IP address and virtual gateway IP address. Spine 3:

339 Spine 4:

340

6. Define the VRF routing instance and corresponding IRB interfaces for EVPN Type 2 routes on each

spine device in POD 2 for the configured VLANs (VNIs). Spine 3: Spine 4:

7. Configure the interfaces and aggregated Ethernet links on the multihomed ToR switches (ToR 1 and

ToR 2) to the spine devices (Spine 3 and Spine 4) in POD 2. In this step, you:

• Set the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the switch that you might need (we set 20

here as an example).

• Configure aggregated Ethernet link ae1 on each ToR switch to the spine devices in POD 2.

• Configure LLDP on the interfaces.

341 ToR 1: ToR 2:

8. Configure the VLANs on the ToR switches in POD 2. These match the VLANs you configured in Step

3 on the spine devices in POD 2. ToR 1 and ToR 2:

342 Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster and ToR Devices This section shows CLI commands you can use to verify connectivity between the collapsed spine devices and the route reflector cluster, and between the collapsed spine devices and the ToR devices. For brevity, this section includes verifying connectivity on the spine devices using only Spine 3 and Spine 4 in POD 2. You can use the same commands on the spine devices (Spine 1 and Spine 2) in POD 1.

1. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the route reflector devices toward the four

collapsed spine devices. On each route reflector device, aeX connects to Spine X).

RR 1:

343

RR 2:

344

2. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and

Spine 4) toward the route reflector devices. Links ae1 and ae2 connect to route reflector devices RR 1 and RR 2, respectively, on both Spine 3 and Spine 4. Spine 3:

345 Spine 4:

3. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and

Spine 4) toward the multihomed ToR switches. Links ae3 and ae10 connect to ToR 1 and ToR 2, respectively, on both Spine 3 and Spine 4, so this command line filters the output to find link states starting with ae3. The output is truncated to show status only for the relevant links.

346 Spine 3: Spine 4:

347

4. Verify that the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and Spine 4) detect the route reflector devices and

the ToR switches in POD 2 as LLDP neighbors. For the spine to ToR links, this verifies that the ESI member links have been established to the multihomed ToR switches. This sample command output is filtered and truncated to show only the relevant aggregated Ethernet links. Comment lines show the columns for the values displayed in the resulting output. See Figure 68 on page 320 again, which shows that both spine switches in POD 2 use ae1 and ae2 to link to the route reflector devices, ae3 to link to ToR1, and ae10 to link to ToR 2. Spine 3:

348 Spine 4: Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay

Configuration

This section shows CLI commands you can use to verify the underlay and overlay are working for the collapsed spine devices integrated with the route reflector cluste. Refer to Figure 68 on page 320 and Figure 69 on page 329 again for the configured underlay and overlay parameters. For brevity, this section includes verifying connectivity on the spine devices using only Spine 3 and Spine 4 in POD 2. You can use the same commands on the spine devices (Spine 1 and Spine 2) in POD 1.

1. Verify on the route reflector devices that the EBGP and IBGP peering is established and traffic paths

with the four spine devices are active. This sample command output is filtered to show only the relevant status lines showing the established peering. Comment lines show the columns for the values displayed in the resulting output.

RR 1:

349

RR 2:

2. Verify on the spine devices in POD 2 that the underlay EBGP and overlay IBGP peerings are

established. This sample command output is filtered to show only the relevant status lines showing the established peering. Comment lines show the columns for the values displayed in the resulting output. Spine 3:

350 Spine 4:

3. Verify the endpoint destination IP addresses for the remote VTEP interfaces, which are the loopback

addresses of the other three spine devices in POD 1 and POD 2 of this collapsed spine topology. We include sample output for Spine 3 in POD 2 here; results are similar on the other spine devices. Spine 3:

4. Verify the ESI-LAGs on the spine devices toward the ToR switches. We include sample output here

for Spine 3 in POD 2 here; results are similar on the other spine devices. Spine 3:

351

352

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49 Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236 Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 281

353 EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence

Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding Instance | 353 Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist | 355 Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence | 358 EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature — Release History | 360 By default, EVPN-VXLAN devices import and advertise EVPN Type 2 routes (MAC with IP advertisement routes) for ESI MAC address control plane learning. You can also enable the devices to import and advertise EVPN Type 5 routes (IP prefix routes) in a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance using the ip-prefix-routes statement at the [edit routing-instances name protocols evpn] hierarchy level. With Type 5 routes enabled, the device will learn how to reach an IP host address from both a Type 2 route (the IP portion) and from a Type 5 route for the same prefix. When the device learns either type of route for the same destination, it stores both as separate routes, so Type 2 and Type 5 routes might coexist for a VRF. You can configure the VRF with different import and export VRF route targets to prevent importing local Type 5 routes back into the device (essentially preventing coexistence entirely). However, in some cases, you might want to accept coexisting routes for local or remote destinations. You can also apply routing policies to prevent the device from importing Type 2 or Type 5 host routes for particular prefixes or destinations. Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding

Instance

IN THIS SECTION

Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Algorithm | 354

354 Limitations with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Feature | 354 In a large data center with an edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay fabric, Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence can strain the device’s Packet Forwarding Engine (PFE) next-hop resources. Also, the device performs better in certain cases if it can prefer one type of route over the other. As a result, we provide a Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence preference feature on supported platforms and releases. With this feature, when the device accepts coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes, the device applies a route preference algorithm by default. According to the preference algorithm, the device assigns only one type of route for the same destination prefix as the active route. See EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN in the EVPN User Guide for more on this feature and the default preference algorithm. Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Algorithm When you configure the device to accept coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes for a VRF, the device applies the following preference algorithm on imported routes:

• If the device learns a Type 2 route for a destination and doesn’t have a matching prefix Type 5 route,

it installs the Type 2 route.

• If the device learns a Type 5 route for a local ESI Type 2 route (a local host route) for the same prefix,

it installs the Type 2 route.

• If the device learns a Type 5 route and has a matching Type 2 entry for a non-local interface, it

installs the Type 5 route instead (and it deletes the Type 2 entry). Essentially, if Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist for the same prefix, the algorithm prefers Type 2 routes for local interfaces and prefers Type 5 routes for all other destinations. The device deletes non-local destination Type 2 route entries from the PFE when it installs a Type 5 route for the same prefix, saving next-hop table space in the PFE. Limitations with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Feature The following sections describe some routing behavior limitations or constraints in a routing instance with the Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence feature. Routing Over an IRB Interface for BGP with EBGP EBGP protocol is designed to establish peering between directly-connected interface addresses, so the EBGP message default time-to-live (TTL) is 1 (which corresponds to one next hop). In EBGP

355 configurations with Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence, the device prefers Type 5 routes for remote destination hosts. When the device routes a packet over an IRB interface for a Type 5 route tunnel, the routing might require more hops than traffic bridged or routed locally using Type 2 routes. To ensure successful routing over IRB interfaces in EBGP configurations with Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence, you must set the multihop option with a TTL value of 2 or more in the EBGP peer group configuration, as follows: Routing Over an IRB Interface with IS-IS or OSPF To ensure successful routing over IRB interfaces for destination hosts where the device resolves those routes using IS-IS or OSPF, you can’t allow Type 2 and Type 5 routes to coexist. ISIS and OSPF are link state protocols that expect peers to be directly connected. The device should not route IS-IS or OSPF control packets and should use Type 2 routes. When Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist, the device must prefer the Type 2 route. As a result, in this case, define and apply a routing policy to avoid importing Type 5 routes for those host routes. See the sample policies in:

• Step 6 in "Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist" on page 355.

• EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN in the EVPN User Guide

These policies filter and don’t import routes for specific host addresses or prefixes. DHCP Relay Recommendation with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence In a VRF instance with DHCP relay enabled and Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist, you should disable snooping in the DHCP relay configuration, as follows: Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist To configure a VRF to have coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes, enable Type 5 routing (IP prefix routes) and ensure the device uses the same import and export VRF route targets in the routing instance. You also apply a routing policy in the instance for the host routes that you want the device to import or

356 advertise. See EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN for more on policy options you might want to configure with this feature. The following example configuration enables Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence on a leaf device in the ERB overlay fabric introduced in "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236. You can use the same general configuration from that ERB reference design example. The configuration here corresponds to the Type 5 route configuration on Leaf 10 in VRF_3. Refer to the steps there where we set the host routes export routing policy and enable Type 5 routes in routing instance VRF_3.

1. Configure a policy called EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES to match on and accept /32 and /128 host routes

(these correspond to all host routes). Include direct routes and static routes in the policy too.

2. Configure a tenant VRF routing instance VRF_3 for VNI_50000. (In the configuration in "Edge-

Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236, you can apply a similar step for VNI_60000 and irb.600 in VRF_3, and VNI_70000 and VNI_80000 in VRF_4.)

3. Enable Type 5 routes (IP prefix routes ) in VRF_3. Apply the EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES routing policy

from step 1. Make sure that Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist by setting the import and export route

357 targets to the same value. Supported devices apply the coexistence route preference algorithm when importing and installing routes. NOTE: You can configure the vrf-target route-target-value statement at the [edit routinginstances name] hierarchy without specifying separate import and export target options. In that case, if you’ve enabled Type 5 routes in the instance, the configuration applies the same route target value for import or export (advertisement) actions, which enables Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence. Here we explicitly set the same route target using import and export options to show clearly that Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist.

4. (Required on ACX7100 routers only) Set the reject-asymmetric-vni option in the VRF routing instances

where you enable Type 5 IP prefix routes. This option configures the device to reject EVPN Type 5 route advertisements with asymmetric VNIs—the device doesn’t accept traffic from the control plane with a received VNI that doesn’t match the locally configured VNI. We support only symmetric VNI routes on these devices.

5. (For a VRF instance that learns host IP addresses using EBGP) To support routing over IRB interfaces

with Type 2 and Type 5 coexistence for hosts that use EBGP, you must set the multihop option with a TTL value of 2 or more in the EBGP peer group configuration. (See "Routing Over an IRB Interface for BGP with EBGP" on page 354 for more on this use case.) For example:

6. (For a VRF instance that learns host IP addresses using IS-IS or OSPF) To support routing over IRB

interfaces for hosts that use IS-IS or OSPF, ensure the instance always prefers Type 2 routes for those hosts. In other words, prevent Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence for only those host IP addresses. (See "Routing Over an IRB Interface with IS-IS or OSPF" on page 355 for more on this limitation.)

358 To do this, define and apply a routing policy in the VRF instance that avoids importing Type 5 routes for those host IP addresses. For example, in the configuration for VRF_3, to filter out Type 5 routes for a host with IP address 10.1.4.106: Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence To verify the coexistence preference algorithm stores only the preferred routes with Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence, use the following commands. These sample commands use the ERB overlay fabric configured in "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236 on Leaf 10 with:

• MAC-VRF instance: MAC-VRF-1

• Tenant VRF: VRF_3

• A local host with IP address 10.1.4.101

• A remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102

These commands check routes to a remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102 on an Ethernet segment on another leaf device in the fabric. Leaf 10 has a host with IP address 10.1.4.101.

1. Enter the show arp no-resolve command to check that the remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102

doesn’t appear in the ARP table. The device is saving next hop space in the PFE by avoiding installing both Type 2 and Type 5 routes for the same remote destination.

359

2. Enter the show ethernet-switching mac-ip-table command to see routes for the remote host. When Type

2 and Type 5 routes coexist, the RTS flag in the Flags output field means the device skipped adding a Type 2 route in favor of a Type 5 route with a matching prefix. Here, the output includes the RTS flag for the remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102, so the Type 5 route is the preferred route.

3. Enter the show route forwarding-table ... extensive command to see Type 5 route forwarding entries for

the tenant VRF instance VRF_3. The Flags field includes the VxLAN Local flag when the route is a Type 5 local route that the device preferred over a learned Type 2 route for the same destination.

360

4. Enter the show route ... extensive command to check that the (preferred) Type 5 route for the remote

host is in the routing table. The State field in the output with the extensive option includes VxlanLocalRT for Type 5 routes. This is similar to the forwarding table output in the previous step where the VXLAN Local flag indicate the device preferred and stored the Type 5 local route instead of the Type 2 route. EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature —

Release History

Table 11 on page 361 provides a history of the feature in this section and its support within this reference design.

361 Table 11: EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation– Release History 21.4R2 MX Series, QFX5110, QFX5120, and QFX10000 Series devices running Junos OS Release 21.4R2 and later releases in ERB overlay reference architectures. 21.4R2-EVO ACX7100-48L, PTX10001, PTX10004, PTX10008, PTX10016, and QFX5130-32CD devices running Junos OS Evolved Release 21.4R2 and later releases in ERB overlay reference architectures.

Data Center Interconnect Design and

Implementation Using Type 5 Routes

IN THIS SECTION

Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 361

Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces | 364

Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine Devices and the Backbone Devices | 366 Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device | 370 Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices | 375

362

Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 377

Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating | 381

DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History | 386

EVPN Type 5 routes, also known as IP prefix routes, are used in a DCI context to pass traffic between data centers that are using different IP address subnetting schemes. In this reference architecture, EVPN Type 5 routes are exchanged between spine devices in different data centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers. Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before EVPN Type 5 messages can be sent across data centers. This physical connectivity is provided by backbone devices in a WAN cloud. A backbone device is connected to each spine device in a single data center and participates in the overlay IBGP and underlay EBGP sessions. EBGP also runs in a separate BGP group to connect the backbone devices to each other; EVPN signaling is enabled in this BGP group. Figure 71 on page 363 shows two data centers using EVPN Type 5 routes for DCI.

363 Figure 71: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes Topology Overview For additional information on EVPN Type 5 routes, see EVPN Type-5 Route with VXLAN encapsulation for EVPN-VXLAN. All procedures in this section assume that EVPN Type 2 routes are successfully being passed in the data centers. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172 for setup instructions.

364 This section covers the processes for configuring a DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes, and includes the following procedures:

Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces

The backbone devices in this architecture are part of the WAN cloud and must provide connectivity both to the spine devices in each data center as well as to the other backbone device. This connectivity must be established before EVPN Type 5 routes can be exchanged between spine devices in different data centers. Figure 72 on page 364 provides an overview of the IP addresses that are configured in these steps. Figure 72: IP Address Summary for Backbone and Spine Devices To configure the spine device and backbone device interfaces: Set up the interfaces and assign IP addresses:

365

• (Aggregated Ethernet interfaces) Configure the aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the spine device

switches in Data Centers 1 and 2 and on the backbone devices. This step shows the assignment of the IP address to the aggregated Ethernet interfaces only. For complete step-by-step instructions on creating aggregated Ethernet interfaces, see Configuring Link Aggregation. Spine Device 1 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 3 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 4 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2: Spine Device 6 in Data Center 2: Backbone Device 1:

366 Backbone Device 2:

• (Standalone interfaces that are not included in aggregated Ethernet interfaces) See Configuring the

Interface Address. Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine Devices and the Backbone Devices EBGP is used as the routing protocol of the underlay network in this reference design. The backbone devices must participate in EBGP with the spine devices to support underlay connectivity. The process for enabling EBGP on the spine and leaf devices is covered in the "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 section of this guide. This procedure assumes EBGP has already been enabled on the spine and leaf devices, although some EBGP configuration on the spine devices needs to be updated to support backbone devices and is therefore included in these steps. EBGP works in this reference design by assigning each leaf, spine, and backbone device into it’s own unique 32-bit autonomous system (AS) number. Figure 73 on page 367 shows an overview of the EBGP topology for the spine and backbone devices when backbone devices are included in the reference design.

367 Figure 73: EBGP Topology with Backbone Devices Figure 74 on page 368 illustrates the EBGP protocol parameters that are configured in this procedure. Repeat this process for the other devices in the topology to enable EBGP on the remaining devices.

368 Figure 74: EBGP Configuration in a Backbone Topology To enable EBGP to support the underlay network in this reference design:

1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.

All Spine and Backbone Devices:

2. Configure the ASN for each device in the underlay.

In this reference design, every device is assigned a unique ASN in the underlay network. The ASN for EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using the local-as statement because the system ASN setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the overlay network.

369 Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example: Backbone Device 1: Backbone Device 2:

3. Configure BGP peers by specifying the ASN of each BGP peer in the underlay network on each spine

and backbone device. In this reference design, the backbone devices peer with every spine device in the connected data center and the other backbone device. The spine devices peer with the backbone device that connects them into the WAN cloud. Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example: Backbone Device 1:

370 Backbone Device 2:

4. Create a routing policy that identifies and includes the loopback interface in EBGP routing table

updates and apply it. This export routing policy is applied and is used to advertise loopback interface reachability to all devices in the IP Fabric in the overlay network.

Each Spine Device and Backbone Device:

5. Enable multipath to ensure all routes are installed and shared in the forwarding table.

Each Spine Device and Backbone Device:

Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device The backbone devices must run IBGP to have overlay network connectivity and be able to support DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes. Figure 75 on page 371 shows the IBGP configuration of the validated reference design when backbone devices are included in the topology. In the validated reference design, all spine and leaf devices in the same data center are assigned into the same autonomous system. The backbone devices are assigned into the same autonomous system as the spine and leaf devices of the data center that is using the backbone device as the entry point into the WAN cloud.

371 Figure 75: IBGP Overview with Backbone Devices Figure 76 on page 372 illustrates the route reflector configuration in the validated reference design. One route reflector cluster—cluster ID 192.168.2.10—includes backbone device 1 as the route reflector and all spine devices in data center 1 as route reflector clients. Another route reflector cluster—cluster ID 192.168.2.11—includes backbone device 2 as the route reflector and all spine devices in data center 2 as route reflector clients.

372

Figure 76: IBGP Route Reflector Topology

The validated reference design supports multiple hierarchical route reflectors, where one cluster includes backbone devices acting as route reflectors for the spine device clients and another cluster includes spine devices acting as route reflectors for leaf device clients. To see the configuration steps for configuring the other route reflector, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. Figure 77 on page 373 shows the full hierarchical route reflector topology when two data centers are connected:

373

Figure 77: Hierarchical IBGP Route Reflector Topology

For more information on BGP route reflectors, see Understanding BGP Route Reflectors. This procedure assumes IBGP has been enabled for the spine and leaf devices as detailed in "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. The spine device configurations are included in this procedure to illustrate their relationships to the backbone devices. To setup IBGP connectivity for the backbone devices:

1. Configure an AS number for overlay IBGP. All leaf and spine devices in the same data center are

configured into the same AS. The backbone devices are configured into the same AS as the spine and leaf devices in the data centers using the backbone device as the entry point into the WAN cloud. Backbone Device 1 and All Spine and Leaf Devices in Data Center 1: Backbone Device 2 and All Spine and Leaf Devices in Data Center 2:

374

2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on the backbone devices. Form the route reflector clusters

(cluster IDs 192.168.2.10 and 192.168.2.11) and configure BGP multipath and MTU Discovery. Backbone Device 1: Backbone Device 2:

3. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on the spine devices. Enable BGP multipath and MTU

Discovery. Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example:

375 Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example: Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices EBGP is also used as the routing protocol between the backbone devices in this reference design. The backbone devices are connected using IP and the backbone devices must be configured as EBGP peers. A second EBGP group—BACKBONE-BGP—is created in these steps to enable EBGP between the backbone devices. Each backbone device is assigned into a unique 32-bit AS number within the new EBGP group in these steps. The backbone devices, therefore, are part of two EBGP groups— UNDERLAY-BGP and BACKBONE-BGP—and have a unique AS number within each group. EVPN signaling, which has to run to support EVPN between the backbone devices, is also configured within the EBGP group during this procedure. Figure 78 on page 376 illustrates the attributes needed to enable EBGP between the backbone devices.

376

Figure 78: EBGP Topology for Backbone Device Connection

To enable EBGP as the routing protocol between the backbone devices:

1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.

Both Backbone Devices:

2. Configure the ASN for each backbone device.

Backbone Device 1:

377 Backbone Device 2:

3. Configure the backbone devices as BGP peers.

Backbone Device 1: Backbone Device 2:

4. Enable EVPN signaling between the backbone devices:

Both Backbone Devices:

Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes

EVPN Type 5 messages are exchanged between IRB interfaces on spine devices in different data centers when EVPN Type 5 routes are used for DCI. These IRB interfaces are configured in a routing instance. Each data center has a unique virtual network identifier (VNI 102001 and 202001) in this configuration, but both VNIs are mapped to the same VLAN (VLAN 2001) in the same routing instance (VRF 501). See Figure 79 on page 378 for an illustration of the routing instance.

378

Figure 79: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes

To enable DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes:

379 NOTE: This procedure assumes that the routing instances, IRBs, & VLANs created earlier in this guide are operational. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172. When implementing border leaf functionality on an MX router, keep in mind that the router supports virtual switch instances only. MX routers do not support default instances.

1. Configure the preferred addresses of the IRB interfaces.

Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

2. Configure mapping between VLANs and the IRB interfaces.

Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

3. Configure a routing instance, and map the IRB interface to this instance.

Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:

380 Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

4. Configure the VRF instance to generate EVPN Type 5 Routes.

NOTE: The VNI of the local or remote data center—VNI 100501 or 200501 in this reference architecture—must be entered as the VNI in the set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni command. Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

5. On QFX5xxx switches that function as spine devices, enable the chained composite next hop

feature. With this feature enabled, the switches can more efficiently process large amounts of EVPN Type 5 routes by directing routes that share the same destination to a common forwarding next hop. NOTE: On QFX10000 switches, this feature is enabled by default.

381 Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 and Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2: Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating Enter the following commands to verify that traffic can be sent between data centers using EVPN Type 5 routes:

1. Verify that an EVPN Type 5 route has been received from the spine device in the other data center

by entering the show route table command. Enter the VRF instance number and the route distinguisher in the command line to filter the results. Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

2. Verify that EVPN Type 5 routes are exported and imported in the VRF instance by entering the show

evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context command and specifying the VRF instance.

382 Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1: Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

383

3. Verify the EVPN Type 5 route encapsulation details by entering the show route table command with

the extensive option. Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:

384 Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:

385

386

DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History

Table 12 on page 386 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 12: DCI Using Type 5 Routes Release History 19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2-S2 QFX5110 and QFX5120-48Y switches, and MX routers running Junos OS Release 18.4R2-S2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Understanding EVPN Pure Type-5 Routes

Configure IBGP for the Overlay

Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation

387

Data Center Interconnect Design and

Implementation Using IPVPN

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 389

Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 390

Data Center Interconnect—Release History | 391

This section describes how to configure DCI using IPVPN. We are using IPVPN to pass traffic between data centers. In this reference architecture, IPVPN routes are exchanged between spine devices in different data centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers. Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before IPVPN routes can be sent across data centers. The backbone devices in a WAN cloud provide the physical connectivity. A backbone device is connected to each spine device in a single data center and participates in the overlay IBGP and underlay EBGP sessions. EBGP also runs in a separate BGP group to connect the backbone devices to each other; EVPN signaling and IPVPN (inet-vpn) is enabled in this BGP group. Figure 80 on page 388 shows two data centers using IPVPN for DCI.

388 Figure 80: Data Center Interconnect using IPVPN

389

Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN

Configuring DCI for IPVPN is similar to configuring DCI for EVPN Type 5 routes with the exceptions shown in this section. In this example, we are showing the configuration of IPVPN on Spine 1.

1. Configure the underlay link from the spine to the backbone.

2. On the backbone device, configure IBGP and MPLS for the overlay network. IPVPN requires that you

use MPLS.

3. On the spine, configure a routing instance to support DCI using IPVPN routes. This routing instance

accepts L3VPN routes and also advertises data center routes as L3VPN routes to other IPVPN provider edge routers.

390

Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN

1. Verify that data center routes are advertised as IPVPN routes to remote data centers.

2. On Spine 4, verify that the remote data center accepts the routes as IPVPN routes.

391

Data Center Interconnect—Release History

Table 13 on page 391 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

Table 13: DCI Using IPVPN Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support DCI using IPVPN. 18.4R2-S2 MX routers running Junos OS Release 18.4R2-S2 and later releases in the same release train also support DCI using IPVPN. 18.1R3-S5 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S5 and later releases in the same release train also support DCI using IPVPN.

Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center

Interconnect

IN THIS SECTION

Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN | 397 Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN | 401

392 Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension | 402 Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN | 407 Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch Instance | 409 Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 413 Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 415 VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance | 419 Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-VRF | 421 Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance | 424 Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching | 428

Verify Host Route Support | 429

This document describes the configuration and validation steps for implementing Data Center Interconnect (DCI) using VXLAN stitching in a gateway device. The VXLAN stitching feature enables you to stitch together specific VXLAN Virtual Network Identifiers (VNIs) to provide Layer 2 stretch between DCs on a granular basis. Juniper Network’s switching and routing devices support a number of different DCI options. For example, Over the Top (OTT) DCI can be used to extend the overlay between PODS. See OTT DCI for details. One drawback to the OTT method is it extends all VLANs between the PODs, either at layer 2 or Layer 3. Also, OTT DCI requires end-to-end VXLAN VNI significance. This can be an issue if two DC/ PODs are being merged that don’t have overlapping VLAN to VNI assignments. In some cases you want a more granular control over which VLANs are extended between PODs. The Junos VXLAN stitching feature allows you to perform DCI at the VNI level to extend Layer 2 connectivity on a per VLAN basis. Or, you might need to translate VNIs to accommodate instances where the same VNIs are assigned to different VLANs in each POD. For example, take the case where VLAN 1 is assigned VNI 10001 in POD 1, while in POD 2 the same VLAN is assigned to VNI 20002. In this case you either have to reconfigure one of the PODs to achieve a global (overlapping) mapping of VLANs to VNIs. Alternatively, you can employ translational stitching to map local POD VNI values to the VNI used over the WAN. Juniper Networks supports VXLAN stitching for both 3-stage and 5-stage IP fabrics. In addition, VXLAN stitching is supported for centrally-routed bridging (CRB) overlay, edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay, and bridged overlay architectures. This use case assumes that your EVPN-VXLAN POD fabrics are already configured with leaves and spines using one or a combination of the supported architectures shown in Table 14 on page 394. To enable VXLAN stitched connectivity between the two PODs, you add a tier of WAN routers to extend the underlay. The underlay extension extends the overlay between the PODs. Thenyou configure

393 VXLAN stitching on the gateway devices to extend the desired VLANs (now represented as VXLAN VNIs), between the PODs. NOTE: We use the term “WAN Routers” in this document. This doesn’t imply that you have an actual WAN network between the PODs. The WAN routers might be local to both PODs, as is the case in this example. You can also use VXLAN stitching over an extended WAN network when the PODs are geographically remote. Figure 81 on page 393 provides a high level diagram showing the POD/DC fabric types we validated in this reference design.

Figure 81: VXLAN Stitching Reference Architectures

In Figure 81 on page 393, each WAN router connects to each gateway device in both PODs. These connections and the related BGP peer sessions serve to extend the underlay between the two PODs.

394 Specifically, the devices advertise the loopback addresses of the gateway devices between the PODs. This loopback reachability establishes an EBGP based peering session to extend the overlay between the gateway devices in both pods. POD 1 represents a 3-stage CRB architecture with the gateway function collapsed into the spine devices. Thus, in POD 1 the terms spine and gateway are each applicable. In general we’ll use the term gateway when describing the spine devices as the focus here is on their gateway functionality. POD 2, in contrast, is a 5-stage ERB architecture with lean spines and discrete gateway devices. The gateway devices in POD 2 can also be called super-spine or border leaf devices. In the context of this example, they perform the VXLAN stitching functionality and so we refer to them as gateway devices. Table 14 on page 394 outlines the POD architectures we validated as part of this reference design.

Table 14: Supported POD Architectures for VXLAN Stitching

Edge-Routed Bridging Edge-Routed Bridging

Centrally-Routed Bridging Edge-Routed Bridging

Centrally-Routed Bridging Centrally-Routed Bridging

Bridged Overlay Bridged Overlay

3 or 5 stage fabric 3 or 5 stage fabric Other items to note when using VXLAN stitching include:

• You can combine the role of spine and gateway into a collapsed design as shown for POD 1.

• The stitched VNI can have the same value (global stitching) when the PODs have overlapping VLAN

to VNI assignments, or can be translated between the two PODs. The latter capability is useful when merging PODs (DCs) that don’t have overlapping VNI to VLAN assignments.

• We support VXLAN stitching in the default-switch EVPN instance (EVI) and in MAC-VRF routing

instances.

• We support Layer 2 stitching for unicast and BUM traffic only. With BUM traffic, the designated

forwarder (DF) for the local gateway ESI LAG performs ingress replication and forwards a copy of the BUM traffic to each remote gateway. At the remote gateway devices, the DF for the remote ESI LAG performs ingress replication and sends a copy of the BUM traffic to all leaf nodes in the local POD.

395

• We recommend that you configure the IRB interfaces on the spine devices in a CRB fabric with the

proxy-macip-advertisement configuration statement. This option ensures correct ARP operation over a CRB EVPN-VXLAN fabric and is part of the CRB reference architecture. See proxy-mac-ipadvertisement for more information on this option. Note the following about the EVPN–VXLAN fabric reference design:

• This example assumes that the tiers of spine and leaf devices in the two PODs already exist and are

up and running. As a result, this topic provides the configuration for the gateway to WAN router EBGP underlay peering, the inter-POD EBGP overlay peering, and the configuration needed for VXLAN stitching. For information about configuring the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs, see the following:

• "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81

• "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97

• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172

• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236

• "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142

• This example integrates the WAN routers into an existing two POD EVPN-VXLAN fabric. To keep the

focus on VXLAN stitching, both PODs in the example use the same 3-stage Clos fabric based on a CRB architecture. In addition to their role as Layer 3 VXLAN gateways, the spines also perform the VXLAN stitching function. The result is an example of a collapsed gateway architecture. Figure 82 on page 396 shows the collapsed gateway CRB based VXLAN stitching example topology.

396

Figure 82: VXLAN Stitching Example Topology

In this example, you add the gateway functionality to a pre-existing CRB spine configuration. As noted above, we also support 5-stage architectures with the super-spine layer performing the gateway peering and stitching functions. We recommend using a discrete gateway device for maximum scaling and performance. With a 3-stage or 5-stage ERB architecture, you add the gateway configuration to the lean spine or super spine devices, respectively.

• When configuring the overlay BGP peering between the PODs, you can use either IBGP or EBGP.

Typically, you use IBGP if your data centers (PODs) use the same autonomous system (AS) number and EBGP if your PODs use different AS numbers. Our example uses different AS numbers in each POD, therefore EBGP peering is used to extend the overlay between the PODs.

• After you integrate the WAN routers to extend the underlay and overlay between the two PODs,

you configure translational VXLAN stitching to extend a given VLAN between the PODs. Translational VXLAN stitching translates the VNI value used locally in each POD to a common VNI value used across the WAN segment. Note that in our example, we assign VLAN 1 a different (nonoverlapping) VNI value in each POD. This is why we use translational stitching in this case. You

397 normally use global mode stitching when the same VNI value is mapped to the same VLAN in both PODS. What's Next

• MAC-VRF Instance Type Overview

• EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC VRF L2 services

Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN This section shows you how to configure the collapsed gateway devices (a CRB spine with added VXLAN stitching gateway functionality) so they can communicate with the WAN devices. Recall that each POD already has a fully functional underlay and CRB overlay based on the reference implementation for a 3-stage CRB architecture. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172 for details. You configure the spine/gateway devices to peer with the WAN routers to extend the underlay between the two PODs. This involves configuring EBGP peering and policy to tag and advertise the loopback routes from each gateway. These routes establish the inter-POD EBGP peering sessions that extend the fabric overlay in the next section. NOTE: Configuring the WAN routers is outside the scope of this document. They simply need to support aggregate Ethernet interfaces and EBGP peering to the gateway devices. In this example the WAN routers must re-advertise all routes received from one POD to the other. In the case of a Junos device, this is the default policy for the EBGP underlay peering in this example. Figure 83 on page 398 provides the details regarding interfaces, IP addressing, and AS numbering for the DCI portion of the POD networks.

398 Figure 83: Details for Underlay and Overlay Extension Across the WAN The configuration on all the gateway devices is similar. We’ll walk you through configuring the gateway 1 device and then provide the full configuration delta for the other 3 gateways. Gateway 1

1. Configure the interfaces that connect the gateway 1 device to the two WAN routers.

Here, we create an aggregated Ethernet (AE) interface that includes a single member. With this approach you can easily add additional member links to increase the WAN throughput or resiliency.

2. Create a BGP peer group named underlay-bgp-wan, and configure it as an EBGP group.

3. Configure the EBGP Underlay AS number.

399 In this reference design, you assign a unique AS number to each device in the underlay network. See Figure 83 on page 398 for the AS numbers of the gateway and WAN devices. You configure the AS number for EBGP in the underlay network at the BGP peer group level using the local-as statement because the system AS number setting at the [edit routing-options autonomoussystem] hierarchy is used for MP-IBGP overlay peering in the local fabric, and for the EBGP peering used to extend the overlay between the PODs.

4. Configure EBGP peering with WAN devices 1 and 2.

You configure each WAN device as a EBGP neighbor by specifying the WAN device’s IP address and AS number. See Figure 83 on page 398 for the IP addresses and AS numbers of the spine devices.

5. Configure an import routing policy that subtracts 10 from the local preference value of routes

received from the WAN when they are tagged with a specific community. This policy ensures that the gateway device always prefers a local underlay route, even when the same gateway loopback address is also learned over the WAN peering. Recall that we use EBGP for gateway to WAN router peering. By default, EBGP readvertises all routes received to all other EBGP (and IBGP) neighbors. This means that when gateway 1 advertises its loopback route to WAN router 1, the WAN router readvertises that route to gateway 2. The result is that each gateway has both an intra-fabric route and an inter-fabric route to reach the other gateway in its local POD. We want to ensure that the gateway always prefers the intra-fabric path. We do this by adjusting the local preference value for routes received from the WAN (to make them less preferred regardless of AS path length). The policy also blocks the readvertisement of gateway loopback routes learned over the WAN peering into the local fabric. The result is the leaf devices see only the intra-fabric gateway loopback route while the gateway devices always prefer the intra-fabric gateway route. You define the referenced community in the next step.

400 NOTE: This examples assumes you are starting from a baseline reference architecture in both PODs. Part of the pre-existing reference baseline is the fabric underlay and overlay related BGP peering and policy. This example is based on the spine and gateway being collapsed into a single device. Now that you have added underlay and overlay extension via WAN routers, you should modify your existing underlay policy on the gateway, or in our case the spine/gateway device, to block readvertisement of routes tagged with the wan_underlay_comm from the other fabric devices. We show an example of this modification here. The newly added from_wan term suppresses advertisement of routes with the matching community into the fabric underlay. user@Spine-1> show configuration policy-options policy-statement underlay-closexport term loopback { from interface lo0.0; then accept; } term from_wan { from community wan_underlay_comm; then reject; }

6. Configure an export routing policy to advertise the gateway loopback interface address to the WAN

devices. This policy rejects all other advertisements. You now define the wan_underlay_comm community used to tag these routes.

7. Configure multipath with the multiple-as option to enable load balancing between EBGP peers in

different ASs.

401 By default, EBGP selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table. Also, you configure BGP multipath so all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the routing table.

8. Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for the WAN EBGP sessions. BFD enables rapid

detection of failures and thereby fast reconvergence. Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN This section show how to extend the EVPN overlay between the two PODs using EBGP. Recall that in this example the two PODs have unique AS numbers, so EBGP is used. As is typical for 3-stage CRB fabric, our spine devices (gateways) function as route reflectors in the overlay for the leaf devices in their respective PODs. In this section you define a new EBGP peering group that extends the overlay between the PODs. See Figure 83 on page 398 for details about the AS numbering and spine device loopback addresses. The configuration on all the gateway devices is similar. Once again, we’ll walk you through configuring the gateway 1 device, and provide the full configuration delta for the other 3 gateways. Gateway 1

1. Configure the EBGP group to extend the EVPN overlay to the remote gateway devices.

Normally, we use IBGP for an EVPN overlay. We use EBGP here because we assigned the PODS different AS numbers. Note here that you must enable the multihop option. By default, EBGP expects a directly connected peer. In this example, the peer is remotely attached to the far side of the WAN. Also, you must configure the no-nexthop-change option. This option alters the default EBGP behavior of updating the BGP next hop to a local value when re-advertising routes. With this option, you tell the gateway device to leave the BGP protocol next hop for the overlay route unchanged. This is important because the gateway IP address may not be a VXLAN VTEP address, for example, in an ERB fabric where the next hop for an EVPN type 2 route must identify that leaf device. Not overwriting the next hop ensures that the correct VTEPs are used for VXLAN tunnels.

402 You configure the EBGP peering between the gateway device loopback addresses.

2. As with the underlay peering, we add BFD for rapid failure detection in the overlay extension. Note

that here we specify a longer interval for the overlay peering. In the underlay extension peering, we used a 1-second interval. Here we configure a 4-second interval to help ensure the overlay sessions remain up in the event of an underlay failure that requires reconvergence.

3. Be sure to commit the changes on all gateway devices after these steps.

Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension

This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices. You add this delta to the initial CRB baseline to extend the POD underlay and overlay over the WAN. NOTE: The final two statements modify the existing fabric underlay policy to block readvertisement of routes tagged with the wan_underlay_comm community from the other leaf devices. Gateway 1 (POD 1)

403 Gateway 2 (Pod 1)

404

405 Gateway 3 (POD 2)

406 Gateway 4 (POD 2)

407

Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN

This section shows how you verify the gateway devices are properly integrated into the WAN to extend the underlay and overlay networks between the two PODs.

1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are operational. Proper BGP session establishment is a

good sign the interface can pass traffic. If in doubt, ping the remote end of the AE link.

408 The output confirms that the aggregated Ethernet interface ae4 is operational on gateway 1. The traffic counters also confirm the interface sends and receives packets.

2. Verify that the underlay EBGP sessions to the WAN devices are established.

The output shows that both EBGP peering sessions on the gateway 1 device are established to both WAN routers.

3. Verify that the overlay EBGP sessions are established between the gateway devices across the WAN.

409 The output confirms that both the overlay EBGP sessions from the gateway 1 device are established to both remote gateways in POD 2. With underlay and overlay extension verified, you are ready to move onto configuring VXLAN stitching for Layer 2 DCI between the PODs. Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch

Instance

In this section you configure VXLAN stitching in the gateway devices to provide Layer 2 stretch between the two PODs using the default switch instance. We support VXLAN stitching in the default switch instance and in MAC-VRF instances. We begin with the default switch instance, and later show the delta for the MAC-VRF instance case. VXLAN stitching supports both a global mode and a translational mode. In the global mode, the VNI remains the same end-to-end, that is, across both the PODs and the WAN network. You use global mode when the VLAN and VNI assignments overlap between the PODs. In translational mode, you map a local POD VNI value to a VNI used across the WAN.

410 You configure VXLAN stitching only on the gateway devices. The leaf devices don’t require any changes. In ERB fabrics, the lean spine devices also don’t require any changes if you have a super-spine layer performing the gateway function. Table 15 on page 410 outlines the POD VLAN and VNI assignments. In this example, the PODs use a different VNI for the same VLAN. This is why you configure translational stitching in this case. With translational stitching, the VNI can be unique to each POD and still be stitched to a shared VNI assignment over the WAN. Table 15: VLAN to VNI Mappings

VLAN 1

VNI: 100001 VNI: 110001 VNI: 910001

VLAN 2

VNI: 100002 VNI: 110002 VNI: 910002

Figure 84 on page 411 provides a high-level view of the VXLAN stitching plan for VLAN 1 in our example.

411 Figure 84: Translational VXLAN Stitching Summary for VLAN 1 Figure 84 on page 411 shows VLAN 1 in POD 1 uses VNI 100001, while the same VLAN in POD 2 maps to 11000. You stitch both VLANs to a common VNI 910001 for transport over the WAN. When received from the WAN, the gateway translates the stitched VNI back to the VNI used locally within its POD. Once again, the configuration on the gateway devices is similar. We walk you through the steps needed on the gateway 1 device, and provide the configuration delta for the other gateway nodes. Perform these steps to configure translational VXLAN stitching on gateway 1. Gateway 1

1. Configure the default switch instance EVPN parameters for route exchange between the two PODs.

This configuration includes support for an all-active ESI LAG between the gateways. Setting up an ESI LAG over the WAN ensures that all WAN links are actively used to forward traffic without the risk of packet loops. You must use the same ESI value for all gateways within a given POD, and each POD must use a unique ESI value. Therefore, in this example you configure two unique ESIs, one for each pair of gateways in each POD.

412 The route target controls route imports. You configure the same route target on all gateway devices to ensure that all routes advertised by one POD are imported by the other. You set the route distinguisher to reflect each gateway device’s loopback address.

2. Configure VXLAN stitching for VLANs 1 and 2. You specify the VNIs that are stitched over the WAN

at the [edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list] hierarchy. The gateway devices in both PODs must use the same VNI across the WAN for each stitched VNI.

3. Configure translational VXLAN stitching for VLAN 1 by linking the local VLAN/VNI to a translational

VNI. Note that the translational VNI value matches the VNI you configured at the protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list hierarchy in the previous step. Thus, with the following commands you map a local VNI to a WAN VNI. For global VXLAN stitching, you simple omit the translational statement and configure the user VLAN to use the same VNI value you configure at the [edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnectedvni-list] hierarchy. Recall that the leaf and spine devices in each pod are already configured for the CRB reference architecture. As part of the pre-existing configuration, VLANs are defined on both the spine and leaf devices. The VLAN definition on all devices includes a VLAN ID to VXLAN VNI mapping. The spine’s VLAN configuration differs from the leaf, however, in that it includes the Layer 3 IRB interface, again making this an example of CRB. The existing configuration for VLAN 1 is shown at the gateway 1 (spine 1) device for reference:

413 You now modify the configuration for VLAN 1 on the gateway 1 device to evoke translational VXLAN stitching. The VNI you specify matches one of the VNI values you configured at the edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list hierarchy in a previous step. The result is that the device translates VNI 100001 (used locally in POD 1 for VLAN 1) to VNI 910001 when sending it over the WAN. In the remote POD, a similar configuration maps from the WAN VNI back to the local VNI associated with the same VLAN in the remote POD. In configuration mode, enter the following command:

4. Configure translational VXLAN stitching for VLAN 2.

You modify the configuration for VLAN 2 to invoke translational VXLAN stitching from VNI 100002 (used locally in POD 1 for VLAN 2) to VNI 910002 over the WAN.

5. Confirm the change for VLAN 1. We omit VLAN 2 for brevity. The following command displays the

change to VLAN 1 in configuration mode:

6. Be sure to commit your changes on all gateway devices when done.

Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in

Default Switch Instance

This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices. You add this delta to the CRB baseline that you have modified for DCI over the WAN. Once you have extended the underlay and

414 overlay, the following configurations perform translational VXLAN stitching between the local POD’s VNI and the VNI on the WAN. Gateway 1 (POD 1) Gateway 2 (Pod 1) Gateway 3 (POD 2)

415 Gateway 4 (POD 2)

Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance

1. Confirm the ESI LAG between the gateway devices is operational and in active-active mode.

416 The output shows that ESI 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 is operational. The output also shows active-active forwarding (Mode column shows all-active) and both Designated forwarder and Backup forwarder device addresses.

417

2. View remote VXLAN VTEPs to confirm the remote gateway devices are listed as WAN VTEPs.

The output correctly shows both remote gateways as Wan-VTEP.

3. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 100001. Recall that in our

example this is the VNI you assigned to VLAN 1 on the CRB leaves and spines in POD 1.

418 The output confirms the VNI value 100001 associated with VLAN 1 is advertised and used in the local POD.

4. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 910001. Recall that this is the VNI

associated with VLAN 1 for translational VXLAN stitching over the WAN.

419 The output confirms the VNI value 910001 associated with VLAN 1 is advertised to the remote POD. This confirms that VNI 910001 is used over the WAN. Given the local VNI differs from the VNI used on the WAN, this confirms translational VXLAN stitching for the default switch instance use case. VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance We support both global and translational VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF routing instances. Because we demonstrated translational stitching for the previous default switch instance, for the MAC-VRF case we show global mode VXLAN stitching. Coverage of MAC-VRF routing instances is beyond the scope of this document. Once again, we assume you have a working CRB fabric with MAC-VRF instances configured as per the reference baseline. For details on configuring MAC-VRF, see MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview and a sample use case at EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC VRF L2 services. To keep the focus on the VXLAN stitching feature, we call out the delta for adding VXLAN stitching to an existing MAC-VRF. As with the default switch instance, we apply the stitching configuration only to the gateway devices. In the case of MAC-VRF, however, you configure the VLAN to VNI mapping in the MAC-VRF instance, rather than at the [edit vlans] hierarchy. Another difference in the MAC-VRF case is that you configure the interconnected-vni-list statement in the routing instance instead of at the [edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list] hierarchy. The goal in this example is to perform global VXLAN stitching for VLANs 1201 and 1202, which map to VXLAN VNIs 401201 and 401201, respectively. You configure the same VLAN to VNI mapping in both PODS. You can use global mode stitching because the VLAN to VNI assignments overlap in both PODs. You add the following commands to the gateway devices for the MAC-VRF instance that will perform stitching. The configuration defines the ESI LAG used between the local gateways and specifies the list of interconnected VNIs. You need a similar configuration on all gateway devices. As before, we walk though the configuration details for the gateway 1 device and then provide the complete configuration delta for the other gateways.

420 In the below example you configure VNIs 401201 and 401202 for VXLAN stitching over the WAN segment. NOTE: When configuring VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context, you must include the set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels option on all leaf nodes in the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS. After adding this statement, you must reboot the switch. We don’t recommend using the shared tunnels statement on gateway nodes in the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS with VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF routing instances. Shared tunnels are enabled by default on devices running Junos OS Evolved (which supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF configurations). As noted, a complete MAC-VRF routing instance configuration is beyond our scope. The configuration block below uses a pre-existing MAC-VRF instance based on the MAC-VRF reference design. We show this configuration snip to better illustrate why this is an example of global mode VXLAN stitching (for a MAC-VRF instance). The sample is from the CRB spine 1 device, which is also a gateway in our collapsed gateway example topology. For brevity, we only show the configuration for VLAN 1201.

421 In the above, the MAC-VRF definition for VLAN 1201 specifies the same VNI (401201) listed at the [edit routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list] hierarchy. This results in end-to-end (global) significance for that VNI. As with the default switch instance, it is trivial to invoke translational VXLAN stitching in the MAC-VRF context. For example, to translate from local VNI 300801 for VLAN 801 to a WAN VNI of 920001, you simply modify the VLAN definition in the related MAC-VRF instance to include the translation-vni 920001 statement. By adding the translation-vni 920001 statement to the MAC-VRF VLAN configuration, you tell the gateway device to translate from local VNI 300801 to VNI 920001 when sending over the WAN. Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-

VRF

This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices to support global mode VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context. You add this delta is added to the CRB baseline you modified for DCI over the WAN. After you extend the underlay and overlay, the configurations below perform global VXLAN stitching for VNIs 401201 and 401202. Because this is global mode example, you don’t include the translation-vni statement. The VLAN and interconnect VNI values are the same. Gateway 1 (POD 1)

422 Gateway 2 (Pod 1)

423 Gateway 3 (POD 2) Gateway 4 (POD 2)

424 NOTE: When configuring VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context, you must include the set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels option on all leaf nodes in the QFX5000 line of switches. After adding this statement you must reboot the switch. We don’t recommend configuring the shared tunnel statement on gateway nodes in the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS with VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF routing instances. Shared tunnels are enabled by default on devices running Junos OS Evolved (which supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF configurations).

Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance

1. Confirm the ESI LAG used between the gateway devices is operational and in active-active mode for

the MAC-VRF case.

425 The output shows that ESI 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 is operational. Active-Active forwarding is verified by the all-active mode and the presence of both a designated and backup forwarder.

426

2. View remote VXLAN VTEPs to confirm the remote gateway devices are listed as WAN VTEPs.

The output correctly shows both remote gateways as a Wan-VTEP.

3. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 401201 for advertisements to the

WAN. In our example, this is the VNI assigned to VLAN 1201 in both PODs. As this is a CRB example, you defined VLAN 1201 on the spines and on the leaf devices. Only the spine devices include the Layer 3 IRB interfaces in their VLAN configurations, however.

427 The output confirms VNI value 401201, which is associated with VLAN 1201 and the irb.1201 interface, is advertised to the remote POD. This confirms that VNI 401201 is used over the WAN for VLAN 1201.

4. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 401201 for advertisements to the

local POD. Recall this is the VNI associated with VLAN 1201 in both PODs. This is the same VNI you used in the previous command to display advertisements to the remote gateways.

428 The output shows that VNI 401201 is advertised to the local POD. This confirms that VNI 401201 is used locally. Given the same VNI is used locally, and across the WAN, this confirms global VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF case.

Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching

In some environments you may want to install /32 or /128 host routes to optimize traffic to a specific VM. When you use VXLAN stitching, configure the following on all gateway nodes to enable installation of host routes. The first command adds host route support to the default switch instance. The second adds host route support for a specific MAC-VRF instance. You must configure both if you are using a mix of instance types.

429

Verify Host Route Support

IN THIS SECTION

Purpose | 429 Action | 429

Purpose

Confirm that /32 host routes are imported into a Layer 3 VRF table when using the default switch instance or a MAC-VRF table when using MAC-VRF.

Action

Display the related routing instance’s route table and look for routes with a /32 (or /128) bit prefix. We begin with the display of a Layer 3 VRF table used with VXLAN stitching, the default switch instance: Next, we display a MAC-VRF instance route table.

430

EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching

DCI enables you to segment the data center fabric into multiple points of delivery (PODs). Seamless stitching of VXLAN virtual network identifiers (VNIs) allows you to selectively stretch your Layer 2 network between PODs. Each POD follows a spine and leaf design. The leaf nodes in a given POD establish VXLAN tunnels only with leaves and spines in their POD. Spines transport traffic to other spines of different PODs. VXLAN stitching with DCI is ideal for larger networks because it reduces MAC flooding by reducing the required number of VXLAN tunnels between PODs. Symmetric IRB in an EVPN-VXLAN environment occurs when the ingress and egress VXLAN tunnel end points (VTEPs) perform both routing and bridging on each side of the VXLAN tunnel. The ingress provider edge (PE) device performs a MAC lookup followed by an IP lookup. The egress PE performs the opposite, an IP lookup followed by a MAC lookup. Symmetric versus asymmetric models are covered in RFC 9135.

431 NOTE: Juniper Networks supports symmetric Type 2 routing with EVPN in:

• Networks using only symmetric Type 2 routing in PODs within the same DCI.

• EVPN-VXLAN environments.

• Edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlays.

Figure 85 on page 431 shows the topology for this example. The topology consists of two data centers connected over a WAN. Both data centers have similar ERB architectures. We refer to the data center on the left as DC1, and the data center on the right as DC2. DC2 includes a layer of lean spine devices between the gateways and leaf layers. These lean spines are transit devices for the underlay. The topology uses EBGP for both the underlay and the overlay in both DC1 and DC2. Figure 85: Topology for DCI and Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes

432

Inter-DC Underlay and Overlay

Configure the EBGP DCI underlay on DC2-GW21: Verify the EBGP DCI underlay on DC2-GW21:

433 Configure the EBGP DCI overlay on DC2-GW21: Verify the EBGP DCI overlay on DC2-GW21:

434

435

Intra-DC Underlay and Overlay

Configure the EBGP Intra-DC underlay on DC2-GW21: Verify the EBGP Intra-DC underlay on DC2-GW21:

436

Layer 2 Symmetric IRB

Configure Layer 2 symmetric IRB interfaces on the DCI gateways Layer 3 virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance on DC2-GW21: Verify symmetric routes on DC2-GW21 for the remote gateway. Symmetric routes will have a protocol preference of 7, while asymmetric routes will have a protocol preference of 170:

437 Layer 2 symmetric routes carry the Layer 2 and Layer 3 VNIs along with the Type 2 DCI route target (RT) and Type 5 stitching interconnect RT. They also carry router MAC addresses and interconnect Ethernet segment identifiers (iESI) details:

438

439

440

Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect

Configure the VLANs for symmetric routing and seamless stitching. Seamless stitching requires that interconnected gateway devices use the same translation-vni. NOTE: You are required to configure set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan vxlan-trans-vni-enable on QFX5120 series switches to enable Layer 2 stitching. The packet forwarding engine (PFE) will restart once this configuration is applied, resulting in a restart of the associated FPC and interfaces. NOTE: You are required to configure set system packet-forwarding-options system-profile vxlan-stitching on ACX Series routers to enable Layer 2 stitching. The PFE will restart once this configuration is applied. NOTE: You can configure the following parameters on ACX Series routers to enable load balancing based on traffic payload. set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-3 set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-4 set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-3 set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-4 set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice source-mac set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice destination-mac Configure the translation VNI on DC2-GW21 for all gateway devices.

441 Verify the EVPN routes on DC2-GW21 advertised to the DCI. Show the EVPN database for the specified MAC-VRF and VNI. The dci-adv option is specific to showing MAC advertisements to DCI gateway nodes:

442 Verify the EVPN routes on DC2-GW21 advertised to the data center. Show the EVPN database for the specified MAC-VRF and VNI. The dc-adv statement is specific to showing MAC advertisements to data center gateway nodes:

443 Configure the interconnect vrf-target and route-distinguisher for DC1 interconnect gateway (iGW) devices on DC1-GW12. These must be different from the vrf-target and route-distinguisher configured for the local DC: Add the previously defined translation VNIs to the DC1 interconnect configuration under the MAC-VRF:

444 Configure the interconnect vrf-target and route-distinguisher for DC2 iGW devices. These must be different from the vrf-target and route-distinguisher configured for the local DC: Add the previously defined translation VNIs to the DC2 interconnect configuration under the MAC-VRF: Verify the remote VTEP on DC1-GW12:

445 Verify Type 2 stitching on DC1-GW12:

446 Verify the remote VTEP on DC2-GW21: Verify Type 2 Stitching on DC2-GW21:

447

448 Configure Layer 2 stitching with non-translated global VNIs on DC2-GW21: Verify non-translated global VNIs on DC2-GW21:

449 Verify the EVPN routes advertised to the data center on DC2-GW21:

450 Type 5 Stitching Type 5 stitching is Juniper Networks recommended method for advertising the router MAC address. The router MAC address and Layer 3 VNI are how data is forwarded in a stitched environment. Type 2 symmetric routing only carries the Layer 2 and Layer 3 VNI information to the remote gateways and does not perform data forwarding. Configure Type 5 stitching on DC2-GW21:

451 Verify the Type 5 routes on DC2-GW21 being exported or stitched to the remote gateways and local leaf nodes: Verify the Type 5 routes on DC2-GW21 being imported or stitched from the remote gateways and the local leaf nodes:

452

Interconnect Multihoming for DCI Gateway Peers

Configure multihoming on DC2-GW21 for redundancy. A full discussion of multihoming is beyond the scope of this document. For more about multihoming, see EVPN Multihoming Overview. NOTE: You must configure interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways globally. set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways It cannot be configured within a MAC-VRF, as shown. set routing-instances <instance-name> protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peergateways

453 Verify multihoming on DC2-GW21 is working properly. You can see the multihomed peer has the designation of I-ESI-Peer: Configurations for DC2-GW21 and DC2-Leaf21 Configurations are provided for reference only. Do not copy and paste these configurations as-is into your devices. Configurations for other gateway and leaf nodes will be similar. These configurations have been truncated for readability.

DC2-GW21

454

455

456

457

458

459

460

461

462

463

464

465 NOTE: On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, also configure the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details): set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile

DC2-Leaf21

466

467

468

469

470

471

472

473

474

475

476

477

Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching

Through Interconnected EVPN-MPLS WAN

Gateways

This article outlines the configuration necessary to stitch an EVPN-VXLAN data center to another EVPN-VXLAN data center, while traversing an EVPN-MPLS WAN fabric. Your WAN could be geographically dispersed or local to the same data center where the EVPN-VXLAN points of delivery (PODS) reside. See RFC 9014.

Topology

The following diagram shows two EVPN-VXLAN data centers connected through an EVPN-MPLS WAN, using the gateway model. Each gateway is configured with an EVPN MAC-VRF routing instance. Each MAC-VRF instance uses VXLAN encapsulation, and the interconnect within each MAC-VRF instance uses MPLS encapsulation.

478

EVPN-VLXAN through EVPN-MPLS WAN

Configuration

Follow the steps below to configure a pair of gateways. We'll show the relevant configuration for DC1 Spine1 and DC2 Spine1. Full device configurations are beyond the scope of this document. Feature support is determined by the platform and release you are using. Use Feature Explorer to determine if a feature is supported on your platform.

1. Configure a MAC VRF routing instance.

2. Configure the EVPN protocol.

3. Configure VXLAN encapsulation and supporting elements.

4. Configure the interconnect statement and supporting elements.

479

5. Based on the platform you're configuring, set these platform-specific options as required:

• (QFX5120 switches) You are required to configure the following to enable Layer 2 stitching:

The packet forwarding engine (PFE) restarts when you apply this configuration, and the associated FPC and interfaces restart. See the evpn-vxlan statement page for more information on the vxlan-trans-vni-enable option.

• (ACX Series routers) You are required to configure the following on ACX Series routers to support

an IPv6 underlay: Refer to vxlan-extended for additional information.

• (ACX Series routers) You are required to configure the following to enable Layer 2 stitching. The

PFE restarts when you apply this configuration. Refer to vxlan-stitching for additional details related to control-word support in EVPN-VXLAN and EVPN-MPLS environments, and further ACX requirements.

• (ACX Series routers) You can configure the following parameters to enable load balancing based

on traffic payload: Refer to hash-key (Forwarding Options) for additional information and requirements related to ACX Series and PTX Series devices.

480

• (ACX Series routers) For features such as EVPN-VXLAN, if you have a requirement for a higher

Layer 2 MAC scale, then we recommend that you migrate to the “cloud-metro” profile. You set this profile at the [edit system packet-forwarding-options hw-db-profile] hierarchy level. ACX7024 devices support only the lean-edge and cloud-metro profile options. Refer to hw-db-profile for more information and ACX Series router requirements for these profile options.

6. Configure the interconnect Ethernet segment identifier (ESI) and supporting elements.

7. Configure additional elements of the MAC-VRF instance.

8. Configure VLANs.

See the following example configuration for DC1 Spine1. Change any values to match your existing network.

481 See the following example configuration for DC2 Spine1. Change any values to match your existing network.

482 NOTE: For multihomed gateway devices, you must include the following statement at the global level: set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways VTEP-IP-of-each-DCI-GW-peer-in-local-

DC

483 You can't configure the above statement within a routing instance. Also, the statement interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways is renamed in Junos OS Release 24.2R1 to multihoming-peer-gateways to support identifying multihoming peer devices in multiple use cases. Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 24.4R1, we restored the interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways statement name specifically for the interconnect use case. We've implemented other statements for other feature use cases too, and you won't see the multihoming-peer-gateways statement in the Junos OS CLI anymore. A full discussion of multihoming is beyond the scope of this document. For more about multihoming, see EVPN Multihoming Overview.

Verification

Confirm that routes are showing in mpls.0.

484 Confirm that VXLAN VNI's are populating in the EVPN database.

485 Confirm MAC table entries for an IRB.

486

Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the Aggregators | 488 Configuring the TOR Devices | 492 Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators | 496 Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices | 499

487 For small MC-LAG networks, you can use static VXLAN to reduce the control plane complexity in your network. Configuring VTEPs on a static VXLAN is straightforward. Use this example to configure static VXLAN tunnels with Q-in-Q tagging (VLAN translation) between data centers. In this example, we focus on the following features:

• Static VXLAN—Static VXLAN connects servers in different data centers by creating a Layer 2 path

(tunnel). For more information about static VXLAN, see Static VXLAN.

• Q-in-Q tunnels—Q-in-Q tunnels segregates and bundles different customer VLAN (C-VLAN) traffic

into a single service provider VLAN. For more information about Q-in-Q tunnels, see Configuring Q-in-Q Tunneling and VLAN Q-in-Q Tunneling and VLAN Translation.

• MC-LAG—MC LAG provides redundancy and load balancing. We configure ICL and ICCP connection

between two peer devices to create the MC-LAG. For more information about MC-LAG, see

Understanding Multichassis Link Aggregation Groups

Figure 86 on page 488 shows a portion of a spine-leaf data center (POD). Within the POD, the TOR devices (TOR1 and TOR2) collect VLANs from the servers below and also manages the VLAN translations (Q-in-Q tunnels). The aggregators collect VLANs from different TOR devices and function as the gateway for the POD. We use a static VXLAN tunnel as a gateway between two PODs. We configure MC-LAG between the peer TOR devices and the peer aggregators. In our reference test environment, we tested a configuration with 64 pods. For this example, we describe how to configure the aggregators and TOR devices in a single pod.

488 Figure 86: Data Center POD with Q-in-Q and Static VXLAN Tunnels This example is configured on top of an existing IP Fabric. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81. Configuring the Aggregators The following section describes how to configure the aggregators.

1. Configure the aggregators to support aggregated Ethernet and MC-LAG.

• Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

• Set the service identifier (SID) for the LAG.

• Configure a loopback address.

• Configure a management port. We use the management interface as an "always up" port to

support the keepalive communication between ICCP peers.

489 AGG1 and AGG2

AGG1

AGG2

2. Assign the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

• ae0 and ae1 forms the ICL and ICCP links between the aggregators.

• ae3 connects the aggregator to the spine devices.

• ae4 connects the aggregators to the TOR devices.

AGG1 and AGG2

3. Enable LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces. Enable LACP with the fast periodic interval to

send a packet every second. AGG1 and AGG2

490

4. Configure the MC-LAG interfaces from the aggregators to the TOR devices and set it to active-active

mode. Set a unique chassis ID for each peer. AGG1 and AGG2

AGG1

AGG2

5. Configure the ICCP peers (AGG1 and AGG2) across the ICL. We use the IP address of the

management link when we configure backup-liveness-detection to exchange keepalive messages.

AGG1

AGG2

491

6. Configure the interfaces to support VLANs.

AGG1 and AGG2

7. Configure the interface to the Spine devices.

AGG1

AGG2

8. Enable static VXLAN by configuring the local and remote VTEP interfaces.

492 AGG1 and AGG2

9. Map the VLANs to the remote VTEP.

AGG1 and AGG2

Configuring the TOR Devices

The following section describes how to configure the TOR devices.

1. Configure the TOR device to support aggregated Ethernet and MC-LAG.

• Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

• Set the SID for the LAG.

• Configure a loopback address.

• Configure a management port. We use the management interface as an "always up" port to

support the keepalive communication between ICCP peers. TOR1 and TOR2

TOR1

493

TOR2

2. Assign the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

• ae0 and ae1 form the ICL and ICCP link between the TOR devices.

• ae4 connects the TOR devices to the aggregators.

• ae7 and ae8 connect the TOR devices to the servers.

TOR1 and TOR2

3. Enable LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces. Enable LACP with a fast periodic interval to

send a packet every second. TOR1 and TOR2

494

4. Configure the interfaces to support VLANs and Q-in-Q translation.

NOTE: When you configure Q-in-Q mapping, the device selects the lowest value in the VLAN ID range as the outer tag. For example, with a range of 3000-3001 in our vlan-idlist, our device uses the VLAN 3000 as the outer tag. When the device receives an outgoing packet with a VLAN in the 3000 to 3001 range, the device pushes an outer tag of with a VLAN ID of 3000. Conversely, the device strips the outer tag for incoming packets with a VLAN ID of 3000 in its outer tag. TOR1 and TOR2

495

5. Configure the MC-LAG interfaces from the TOR devices to the aggregators and servers and set it to

active-active mode. Set a unique chassis ID for each peer. TOR1 and TOR2

TOR1

496

TOR2

6. Configure ICCP across the ICL between the two TOR peers (TOR1 and TOR2). We use the IP address

of the management link when we configure backup-liveness-detection to exchange keepalive messages.

TOR1

TOR2

Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators This section shows how to verify the operation of the aggregators as it manages VLANs through the static VXLAN tunnels. All commands are issued on AGG1.

497

1. Display the VLAN information.

2. Verify the operational status of the multichassis aggregated Ethernet link.

3. Verify the MC-LAG status between AGG1 and AGG2.

498

4. Verify the LACP status on the aggregated Ethernet interface.

5. Verify the local and remote VTEP interfaces for the Static VXLAN is operational.

499 Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices This section shows how you verify the operation of VLANs on one of the TOR Device. All commands are issued on TOR1

1. Display the VLAN information.

2. Verify the operational status of the multichassis aggregated Ethernet link.

500

3. Verify the LACP status on the aggregated Ethernet interface.

501

4. Verify the MC-LAG status between TOR1 and TOR2.

Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels

Overview

When you enable L2PT over VXLAN on an access interface for a Layer 2 (L2) protocol, the leaf device doesn't process Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDUs) coming in on the interface for that protocol. The local device simply encapsulates the protocol BPDUs and floods the packets in the broadcast domain

502 (VLAN) on the corresponding VXLAN tunnels to the remote VXLAN tunnel endpoints (VTEPs) in the network. The remote VTEP leaf devices de-encapsulate the protocol traffic and forward the traffic to the receiving hosts in the VLAN.

Topology

In this example, we have an EVPN-VXLAN bridged overlay fabric with VXLAN tunnels configured between all of the leaf devices. See Figure 87 on page 502.

• Host B on VLAN-1 is the source for the protocol control traffic that should pass transparently to

other hosts in VLAN-1 through the EVPN-VXLAN BO network using L2PT over VXLAN.

• Host B is behind customer edge (CE) device TOR 1.

• TOR 1 is multihomed to Leaf 1 and Leaf 2, so TOR 1 will load-balance (LB) the incoming traffic

between those two leaf devices.

• On Leaf 1 and Leaf 2, we use aggregated Ethernet interface ae5 as the access interface toward TOR

1 and Host B on which we enable L2PT over VXLAN.

Figure 87: L2PT Over VXLAN Tunnels Topology

503

How L2PT over VXLAN Works

Figure 87 on page 502 shows L2PT over VXLAN in action as follows:

1. When protocol control traffic from Host B on VLAN-1 arrives at TOR 1, TOR 1 load-balances the

traffic between Leaf 1 and Leaf 2. In this case, TOR 1 sends the traffic to the access-side interface on Leaf 2 that has L2PT over VXLAN enabled (ae5).

2. Leaf 2 doesn't process the protocol control traffic, but encapsulates it and transparently floods it to

all the VXLAN tunnels on VLAN-1 toward its neighboring leaf devices (Leaf 1, Leaf 3, and Leaf 4).

3. The destination leaf devices de-encapsulate the protocol traffic and forward the traffic toward their

hosts on VLAN-1 (Host A and Host E). The leaf devices don't forward the de-encapsulated traffic toward the hosts on VLAN-2 (Host C and Host D). For multihomed destinations, the multihoming peer leaf device that is the designated forwarder (DF) for the Ethernet segment (ES) forwards the traffic toward the destination host. In this case, on Leaf 4, ae4 is the DF for multihomed TOR 3. so Leaf 4 forwards the traffic toward Host E on VLAN-1. Leaf 3 receives the flooded traffic from the VXLAN tunnel on VLAN-1, but because it isn't the DF for TOR 3, it doesn't forward the de-encapsulated traffic toward TOR 3 and Host E. We show enabling L2PT over VXLAN on the access-side interfaces of the leaf devices that are connected to the protocol traffic source, Leaf 1 and Leaf 2. If the destination hosts need to transparently return protocol traffic, you must enable L2PT over VXLAN on the access interfaces of the leaf devices that are connected to those hosts as well. The ingress leaf device broadcasts tagged packets for the configured protocols to each VXLAN tunnel on the incoming packet’s VLAN, in this case, VLAN-1. If the incoming protocol BPDU is untagged, the device uses the native VLAN to flood the traffic to the VTEP interfaces on the device. As a result, you must configure a native VLAN ID for this feature to also work for untagged traffic. Keep the following items in mind when you plan to use L2PT over VXLAN, which you configure using statements at the [edit protocols layer2-control l2pt interface] hierarchy level:

• You can't configure an interface to process protocol traffic and also transparently forward traffic over

VXLAN tunnels for the same protocol. For example, you can't configure the device to process control BPDUs coming in on interface xe-0/0/1 for a protocol such as Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP):

504 And also configure the device to transparently forward LLDP control BPDUs over the VXLAN tunnels when those BPDUs come in on the same interface:

• You can't configure the regular L2PT MAC rewrite feature (see mac-rewrite) and the L2PT over

VXLAN feature on the same interface. For example, for LLDP control BPDUs coming in on interface xe-0/0/1, you can't configure: and also configure L2PT over VXLAN for LLDP on the same interface:

• The available protocol options might differ on different platforms. See Layer 2 Protocol Tunneling

over VXLAN Tunnels in EVPN-VXLAN Bridged Overlay Networks for details. For example, some platforms transparently tunnel certain protocols by default (such as STP and other xSTP protocols). Those platforms don’t have L2PT protocol options to explicitly configure those protocols for L2PT over VXLAN.

• Some supported protocols share the same destination MAC address. When you enable L2PT over

VXLAN for a protocol, the device transparently forwards BPDUs for all supported protocols that have the same destination MAC address.

• You must configure the same protocol options symmetrically on leaf devices that are multihoming

peers for the BPDU source device, because either peer device might receive the traffic from the source.

Before You Begin

Set up the EVPN-VXLAN bridged overlay fabric with VXLAN tunnels between the leaf devices as shown in Figure 87 on page 502. See "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142 for an example.

505 Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels on Leaf Device Access Interfaces Configure the same steps on access interface ae5 on both Leaf 1 and Leaf 2.

1. Configure a native VLAN ID for untagged L2 protocol BPDUs, with interface ae5 as a member:

2. Enable L2PT over VXLAN on ae5:

3. Configure the protocols you want to be transparently forwarded over the VXLAN tunnels in the

fabric. In this case we configure Multiple MAC Registration Protocol (MMRP), Multiple VLAN Registration Protocol (MVRP), and Ethernet Local Management Interface (E-LMI) protocol using the corresponding options. See l2pt (Destination Tunnels) for a list of the supported protocol options. Configure each protocol you want to tunnel using individual set commands as follows: You should configure the same protocol options symmetrically on leaf devices that are multihoming peers for a protocol BPDU source, because either peer device might receive the traffic from the source.

4. Commit the configuration:

Leaf 1: Leaf 2:

506 NOTE: You can't configure L2PT over VXLAN for a protocol on an interface that already has the same protocol configured for the interface. For example, if you already configured interface ae5 for LLDP and you try to commit an L2PT over VXLAN configuration for LLDP on ae5, the commit fails with an error message such as the following: user@leaf1# set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 protocol lldp [edit] user@leaf1# commit error: L2 protocol tunneling configuration disallowed on interface ae5 as lldp is configured error: configuration check-out failed

5. Check the configuration for L2PT over VXLAN on the ae5 interface on Leaf 1 and Leaf 2:

Leaf 1: Leaf 2:

507

6. Use the show l2pt interface CLI command to verify the interfaces and protocols for which L2PT over

VXLAN tunnels is enabled, as follows: Leaf 1: Leaf 2: Use host-specific monitoring tools to validate that the protocol BPDUs the source host sends are being transparently received by the remote host devices across the VXLAN tunnels.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

l2pt (Destination Tunnels) show l2pt interface Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142 Layer 2 Protocol Tunneling over VXLAN Tunnels in EVPN-VXLAN Bridged Overlay Networks

508

Service Chaining Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Service Chaining | 508 Service Chaining with Multicast | 515

Service Chaining— Release History | 523

For an overview of service chaining, see the Service Chaining section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. The following sections show how to implement service chaining and service chaining of multicast in a EVPN VXLAN network.

Service Chaining

IN THIS SECTION

Service Chaining Design | 508

Configuring Service Chaining | 509

Verifying Service Chaining | 512

Service Chaining Design

Figure 88 on page 509 shows a logical view of the service chaining configuration. It shows the configuration of one spine with a left and right side VRF configuration. The SRX Series router is the PNF, and is performing the Service chaining.

509

Figure 88: Service Chaining Logical View

The flow of traffic for the spine:

1. Traffic from the leaf tenants enters tenant VRF-151, and is destined to a network attached to tenant

VRF-152.

2. Because there is no route from VRF-151 to VRF-152, a default route lookup is performed using

routes received from the PNF.

3. After it receives the default route from the PNF, VRF-151 routes traffic toward the PNF via

IRB.4088.

4. Traffic reaches the PNF, and the PNF performs the service chaining. Traffic is forwarded out ae26.1

using routes received from EBGP.

5. Traffic now reaches tenant VRF-152, and follows regular route lookup and forwarding action towards

the leaf tenants.

Configuring Service Chaining

This section shows how to configure the spine for service chaining as shown in Figure 88 on page 509. This configuration is based on the "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172 configuration.

1. Configure the ESI connection towards the PNF.

510

2. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-151 towards the PNF.

3. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-152 towards the PNF.

4. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PNF.

511

5. Configure the VRF-151 routing instance.

6. Configure the VRF-152 routing instance.

512

7. Repeat this procedure for every spine in your topology.

Verifying Service Chaining

To verify that service chaining is working:

1. On the spine, display the local routes in VRF-152.

2. On the spine, display the local routes in VRF-151.

513

3. On the spine, check that a route lookup for VRF-151 points to the default route received from PNF.

4. On the PNF device, check the route lookup toward the tenant VRF-152 destination.

5. On the PNF device, check that it is advertising only default routes to the EBGP peer on tenant

VRF-152.

514

6. On the PNF device, check that it is advertising only default routes to the EBGP peer on tenant

VRF-151.

7. On the spine, verify that the spine is advertising local VRF-152 routes to the PNF.

8. On the spine, verify that the spine is advertising local VRF-151 routes to the PNF.

515

Service Chaining with Multicast

IN THIS SECTION

Service Chaining with Multicast Design | 515

Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast | 516

Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast | 521

Service Chaining with Multicast Design

Figure 89 on page 515 shows the logical view of the service chaining configuration. The VRF routing instances and IRB interfaces are all configured on the same spine. In this design, we are performing service chaining with an SRX Series router as the PNF and with a PIM gateway.

Figure 89: Service Chaining Logical View

The flow of traffic for Spine 2 when multicast receivers start sending IGMP reports:

1. The leaf devices snoop the IGMP report and advertise EVPN Type 6 routes to the spines to notify

the spines of the interested Multicast receiver.

2. The spine receives the EVPN Type 6 routes based on the VNI mapping, and creates a PIM join (*.G)

entry in VRF-152.

516 The spine configuration includes the address of the RP on the PIM gateway. However, on the VRF-152 routing instance, there is only a default route toward the RP via the PNF.

3. The PIM designated router (DR) on the receiver side IRBs (irb.605, irb.606 irb.607, irb.608) sends a

PIM join (*.G ) towards the PNF device on irb.4089.

4. The PNF device, creates a PIM (*.G) entry with ae26.1 as the outgoing interface.

The PNF is configured with the RP. On the PNF, the RP is also configured on the PNF and the lookup to the PIM RP points toward interface ae26.0 -> interface towards VRF-151 on spines

5. The PIM join arrives on VRF-151 on irb.4088 and creates a PIM ( *,G ) state with irb.4088 as the

outgoing interface and lookup towards the RP points to irb.4086.

6. The Spine sends the PIM join entry on irb.4086 towards the PIM gateway.

7. The PIM gateway receives the PIM (*,G ) join on ae10.2.

The flow of traffic for Spine 2 when the multicast source on VRF-151 starts sending packets:

1. VRF-151 creates a PIM (*,G ) entry with irb.4088 as the outgoing interface and also the RP reachable

via irb.4086.

2. Spine 2 sends two packets—one toward the PNF on irb.4088 and one toward the PIM gateway on

irb.4086. When the PNF receives the packet:

a. The PNF forwards it based on the PIM ( *.G ) entry it created with outgoing interface ae26.1

b. Multicast traffic arrives on irb.4089 in VRF-512 and is forwarded to the receivers on the leafs.

When the PIM gateway receives the packet, it forwards the packet based on its (*,G) PIM entry with the outgoing interface as ae10.2.

3. When traffic arrives at irb.4086 from the PIM gateway on Spine 2, Spine 2 prunes the RPT/shared

tree.

Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast

This section shows how to configure the spine for service chaining as shown in Figure 89 on page 515.

1. Configure the ESI connection towards the PNF.

517

2. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-151 towards the PNF.

3. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-152 towards the PNF.

4. Configure the ESI connection towards the PIM gateway.

518

5. Configure the Layer 3 link for VRF-151 towards PIM gateway.

6. Configure the Layer 3 link for VRF-152 towards the PIM gateway.

7. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PNF.

519

8. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PIM gateway.

9. Configure a routing instance for VRF 151.

520

10. Configure a routing instance for VRF 152.

521

11. Repeat this procedure for every spine in your topology.

Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast

This section shows how to configure service chaining with Multicast. Note the following:

• The multicast source is on VRF-151 - VLAN 601

• The multicast receivers are on VRF-152 - VLAN 606

1. Display the interfaces on VRF-152 that are configured for PIM. This command shows the interfaces

that are DRs.

522

2. Display PIM groups on the Upstream interface towards RP and Source are pointing to irb.4089 –

towards the PNF

523

Service Chaining— Release History

Table 16 on page 523 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

Table 16: Service Chaining Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section. Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and

Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring IGMP Snooping | 524

Verifying IGMP Snooping | 525

Configuring PIM | 527 Verifying PIM | 528

Multicast — Feature Summary | 531

Use this design to configure Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) in your fabric to improve multicast replication. IGMP snooping preserves bandwidth

524 because multicast traffic is forwarded only on interfaces where there are IGMP listeners. For instance, every leaf device does not need to receive every instance of multicast traffic. For an overview of multicast, see "Multicast Optimizations" on page 35. In this design, we are using an external PIM gateway, which extends multicast beyond the data center, and is useful in DCI implementations. The next sections show how to configure and verify multicast.

Configuring IGMP Snooping

In this design, we are using IGMP snooping to constrain multicast traffic in a broadcast domain to interested receivers and multicast devices. To configure IGMP snooping:

525 Configure IGMP snooping on all VXLAN enabled VLANs on the leafs. The current implementation does not support IGMP snooping on selected VXLAN enabled VLANs.

Verifying IGMP Snooping

Enter the following CLI commands to verify IGMP snooping:

1. Verify the local IGMP snooping state on the leaf.

526

2. Verify that the leaf is advertising the EVPN Type 7 route where IGMP is snooped.

3. Verify that the leaf and its multihomed ESI peer device are both advertising the EVPN Type 6 route

for the multicast group.

527

Configuring PIM

To configure PIM:

1. To configure inter-VNI multicast routing at the spine, create a routing instance for a tenant (a leaf

device) named VRF-1. Configure the following in the routing instance:

• Add the IRB interfaces to the leaf devices.

• Enable PIM and configure the local address for this spine as the rendezvous point (RP).

• Enable PIM on the IRB interfaces.

Spine 1:

2. Configure multicast routing on another spine. Configure a corresponding VRF routing instance for

the same tenant as in step 6.

• Add the IRB interfaces toward the leaf devices.

528

• Enable PIM and configure the RP address on spine 1 as the static RP.

• Enable PIM on the IRB interfaces.

Spine 2:

Verifying PIM

Enter the following commands to verify PIM:

1. On spine 1, check the PIM control plane on the RP, and verify that:

• PIM joins are created from Type 6 routes that are generated by leaf devices.

• IGMP reports are coming from non-IGMP snooping capable leaf devices.

529

530

2. On the spine that is configured as the PIM DR, verify the multicast forwarding state from the spine to

the tenant VRF. To do so:

a. Enter show pim interfaces instance on all spines, and check the State column to see which IRB

interface is a DR.

b. On the PIM DR, display the multicast forwarding state.

531

Multicast — Feature Summary

Table 17 on page 531 provides a history of the features described in this section and their support within this reference design.

Table 17: Multicast Feature Summary

| Hardware | IGMPv2 Snooping | EVPN Type 6 SMET Routes | Inter-VNI Multicast with PIM Gateway | PIM to External Rendezvous Point (From Border) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.1R3-S3 | 18.4R2 | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.4R2 | 18.4R2 | Not supported |  |

532

Table 17: Multicast Feature Summary (Continued)

1Make sure that IGMP snooping is not enabled on these QFX switches. If IGMP snooping is inadvertently enabled, these switches might process EVPN Type 6 routes that are reflected to them. 2The QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q switches.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Overview of Multicast Forwarding with IGMP Snooping or MLD Snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN

Environment

Multicast Support in EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Networks

| Hardware | IGMPv2 Snooping | EVPN Type 6 SMET Routes | Inter-VNI Multicast with PIM Gateway | PIM to External Rendezvous Point (From Border) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 19.1R2 | 19.1R2 | Not supported |  |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.1R3-S3 | 18.4R2 | 18.1R3-S3 |  |
|  | 20.2R2 | 20.2R2 | 20.2R2 |  |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |

533

Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring the Server Leaf | 535 Configuring the Spine | 535 Configuring the Border Leaf | 537 Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf | 540 Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine | 542 Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design— Feature Summary | 545 Juniper Networks supports the multicast optimization features discussed in this section in both centrally-routed bridging (CRB) and edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlays. This design assumes that an EVPN-VXLAN ERB overlay is already running for IPv4 unicast traffic. (See "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236 for information about configuring edge-routed bridging.) However, the multicast optimization features uses a centrally routed approach. NOTE: Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 22.2R2, we recommend deploying the optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) solution for ERB overlay unicast EVPN-VXLAN networks that include multicast traffic. OISM combines the best aspects of ERB and CRB overlay designs together to provide the most efficient multicast traffic flow in ERB overlay fabrics. We describe the OISM configuration that we validated in our ERB overlay reference architecture here:

• "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-

Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546 This section shows how to add centrally-routed multicast optimizations to the edge-routed bridging topology shown in Figure 90 on page 534.

534 Figure 90: Topology for Multicast Optimizations in an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Multicast is configured as follows:

• Server leaf devices are set up in AR leaf role and for IGMP snooping.

• Spine devices are set up in AR replicator role.

• Border leaf devices are set up for multicast routing.

NOTE: If your multicast environment requires assisted replication to handle large multicast flows and multicast routing, we recommend any of the QFX10000 line of switches for the border leaf and border spine roles. However, note that the QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q switches. Also, we do not recommend any of the MX Series

535 routers included in this reference design as a border leaf in a multicast environment with large multicast flows. For an overview of multicast optimizations, see the Multicast Optimization section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. The following sections show how to configure and verify multicast assisted replication:

Configuring the Server Leaf

We are configuring AR and IGMP snooping on the server leaf. When IGMP snooping is enabled on a device, SMET is also enabled on the device by default.

1. Enable IGMP snooping.

2. Enable AR in the leaf role. This causes the server leaf to only forward one copy of multicast traffic to

the spine, which then performs replication of the multicast traffic. The replicator-activation-delay is the time, in seconds, the leaf waits before sending the replication to the AR replicator after receiving the AR replicator route from the replicator. Configuring the Spine We are configuring the spine as AR replicator device.

536

1. Configure IP addressing for the loopback interfaces. One address is used for the AR replicator role

(192.168.102.2). The other address (192.168.2.2) is used for the VTEP tunnel.

2. Configure the spine to act as the AR replicator device.

3. Configure the loopback interface that is used in the VRF routing instance.

4. Configure a VRF routing instance.

5. Configure VLANs to the border leaf.

6. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation.

537

7. Configure the switch options, and specify that the loopback interface is the VTEP source interface.

Configuring the Border Leaf

This section describes how to set up multicast routing on the border leafs. NOTE: We do not configure AR on the border leafs. In this network design, the two border leafs share a multihomed ESI, and one of the border leaf devices supports AR but the other does not. In this situation, we do not recommend configuring AR on the border leaf that supports this feature. However, if your network includes two border leafs that share a multihomed ESI, and both border leaf devices support AR, we support the configuration of AR on both border leafs.

1. Configure VLANs

2. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation.

538 NOTE: On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, also include the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details): set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile

3. Configure the switch options and specify that the loopback interface is the VTEP source interface.

4. Configure the IRBs.

539

5. Configure a VRF routing instance.

6. Configure PIM for multicast routing at the border leaf devices.

540 Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf The server leaf is in the role of AR leaf device. This means that it does not perform ingress replication. Instead, it forwards one copy of multicast traffic to the spine, which is configured as the AR replicator device.

1. Verify that the spines are in the role of Assisted Replicator and are receiving Type 3 routes. Address

192.168.102.1 is Spine 1, and address 192.168.102.2 is Spine 2.

541

542

2. Verify the spine that is set up as the AR device for the VLAN. 192.168.102.2 is the address of the AR

device. Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine Verify that server leaf devices 1 through 4 are AR leaf devices. (The loopback addresses of server leaf devices 1 through 4 are 192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.2, 192.168.0.3, and 192.168.0.4, respectively.) The border leaf devices are not set up for assisted replication.

543

544

545

Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design—

Feature Summary

Table 18 on page 545 provides a history of the features described in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 18: Multicast Optimization Feature Summary (Centrally Routed Multicast Design) 1Make sure that IGMP snooping is not enabled on these QFX switches. If IGMP snooping is inadvertently enabled, these switches might process EVPN Type 6 routes that are reflected to them.

| Hardware | IGMPv2 Snooping | EVPN Type 6 SMET Routes | Inter-VNI Multicast with PIM Gateway | Assisted Replication | PIM to External Rendezvous Point (From Border) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.1R3-S3 | 18.4R2 | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.4R2 | 18.4R2 | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 19.1R2 | 19.1R2 | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |
|  | 18.1R3-S3 | 18.4R2 | 18.1R3-S3 | 18.4R2 |  |
|  | 20.2R2 | 20.2R2 | 20.2R2 | 20.2R2 |  |
|  | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported | Not supported |  |

```text
546
2The QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q
switches.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Multicast Support in EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Networks
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with
Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlays
IN THIS SECTION
Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP) | 554
Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance | 559
Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers | 564
Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
Multihoming | 566
Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices | 570
Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM
Options | 571
Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router | 575
Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices | 577
Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation | 581
This example shows how to configure our original optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM)
implementation with assisted replication (AR) in a large EVPN-VXLAN edge-routed bridging (ERB)
overlay fabric.
In EVPN ERB overlay fabric designs, the leaf devices route traffic between tenant VLANs as well as
forwarding traffic within tenant VLANs. To support efficient multicast traffic flow in a scaled ERB overlay
fabric with both internal and external multicast sources and receivers, we provide a multicast
configuration model based on RFC9625—EVPN Optimized Inter-Subnet Multicast (OISM) Forwarding .
```

547 OISM combines the best aspects of ERB and CRB overlay designs for multicast traffic together to provide the most efficient multicast traffic flow in ERB overlay fabrics, especially in scaled environments. OISM enables ERB overlay fabrics to:

• Support multicast traffic with sources and receiver both inside and outside the fabric.

• Minimize multicast control and data traffic flow in the EVPN core to optimize performance in scaled

environments. Our original OISM implementation, called regular OISM, uses a symmetric bridge domains model. With this model, you configure all tenant VLANs in the fabric symmetrically on all OISM devices. This example shows a regular OISM configuration. On some platforms we also support an enhanced version of OISM that uses an asymmetric bridge domains model in which you don't need to configure all tenant VLANs symmetrically on all OISM devices. The OISM configuration elements and steps are almost the same for regular and enhanced OISM. The main difference, besides setting either OISM mode, is how you configure the tenant VLANs with each mode. Enhanced OISM also has some important operational differences to support the asymmetric bridge domains model. See "Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) Implementation" on page 613 for an enhanced OISM configuration. Regular OISM can also interoperate with the assisted replication (AR) feature to offload and loadbalance multicast replication in the fabric to the devices better equipped to handle the load. See Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks for details on how AR works, and "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks" on page 39 earlier in this guide for a short summary of how OISM works with AR. This example includes configuring AR with regular OISM. Figure 91 on page 548 shows the ERB overlay reference architecture in which we validated OISM and AR on supported devices in this example. NOTE: Starting in Junos OS Release 24.4R1, we have tested regular OISM at scale in environments that also include configurations for the following features:

• BGP unnumbered peering with an IPv6 underlay (also referred to as BGP auto-

discovery or BGP auto-peering). See "BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center" on page 123.

• Non-revertive preference-based designated forwarder (DF) election.

See Preference-Based DF Election. We qualified those features with OISM but without AR enabled. We don't include configuration instructions for those features in the regular OISM use cases described here.

548 Figure 91: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Fabric with OISM and AR Here is a summary of OISM components, configuration elements, and operation in this environment. For full details on how OISM works in different scenarios and available OISM support on different platforms, see Optimized Intersubnet Multicast in EVPN Networks.

• In this example, the OISM devices take one of these device roles:

• Server leaf (SL)—Leaf devices that link to the access side (internal) top-of-rack (TOR) devices that

host the multicast servers and receivers inside the fabric. The SL devices can act as AR leaf devices.

• Border Leaf (BL)—Leaf devices that link to an external PIM domain to manage multicast flow to

and from external multicast sources and receivers. The BL devices can also act as AR leaf devices.

549

• AR Replicator Spine (S-ARR)—IP fabric transit devices that serve as route reflectors in the ERB

overlay fabric and also as the AR replicator devices working with OISM. When the spine devices in an ERB overlay act as AR replicators, they must run EVPN-VXLAN and no longer function simply as lean spines.

• In this example, you configure OISM with a MAC-VRF EVPN instance with the VLAN-aware service

type (supports multiple VLANs in the MAC-VRF instance) on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices. You don’t need to configure an EVPN instance on the external PIM router.

• This example configures regular OISM, which uses a symmetric bridge domains model. With this

model, you configure all tenant VLANs (also called revenue bridge domains or revenue VLANs) and virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances in the fabric on all OISM leaf devices. If you configure OISM with AR, you also configure these elements on the spine devices that act as AR replicators.

• OISM leaf devices do intrasubnet bridging, and use a local routing model for intersubnet (Layer 3

[L3]) multicast traffic to conserve bandwidth and avoid hairpinning in the EVPN core. See Local Routing on OISM Devices for details.

• SL devices forward multicast source traffic into the EVPN core only on the source VLAN.

• BL devices forward traffic from external multicast sources into the EVPN core toward internal

receivers only on a supplemental bridge domain called the SBD. The SBD design enables the local routing model and solves other issues with externally sourced traffic. For each tenant VRF instance, you assign a VLAN and a corresponding IRB interface for the SBD.

• OISM SL devices receive multicast traffic from internal sources on the source VLAN, or from

external sources through the BL devices on the SBD. For internally sourced traffic, the SL devices locally bridge the traffic to receivers on the source VLAN, and use IRB interfaces to locally route the traffic to receivers on other VLANs. Upon receiving traffic from outside the fabric, the SL devices use IRB interfaces to locally route the traffic from the SBD to the tenant VLANs and then to their locally attached receivers.

• We support OISM with IGMPv2 (any-source multicast [ASM] reports only) or IGMPv3 (source-

specific multicast [SSM] reports only). OISM requires that you enable IGMP snooping with either IGMP version. We use Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) in sparse mode for multicast routing with different options on SL and BL devices according to their functions. NOTE: To support both IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 receivers on the same device, you must:

• Use different tenant VRF instances to support the receivers for each IGMP version.

• Configure different VLANs and corresponding IRB interfaces that support the

receivers for each IGMP version.

550

• Associate the IRB interfaces for each version with the corresponding tenant VRF

instance. See Considerations for OISM Configurations for details on the required configuration considerations. The configuration we tested here accommodates receivers for both versions on the same device.

• With IGMP snooping, OISM also optimizes multicast traffic using EVPN Type 6 routes for selective

multicast Ethernet tag (SMET) forwarding. With SMET, OISM devices only forward traffic for a multicast group to other devices in the fabric with receivers that show interest in receiving that traffic. (Multicast receivers send IGMP join messages to request traffic for a multicast group.) In the regular OISM model used here, OISM devices advertise EVPN Type 6 routes only on the SBD.

• OISM supports EVPN multihoming with multicast traffic. The fabric can include receivers behind

TOR devices that are multihomed in an Ethernet segment (ES) to more than one OISM leaf device. You configure an ES identifier (ESI) for the links in the ES. OISM devices use EVPN Type 7 (Join Sync) and Type 8 (Leave Sync) routes to synchronize the multicast state among the multihoming peer devices that serve an ES. In this environment, we validate OISM and AR together at scale with the AR replicator role on the spine devices. "Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices" on page 577 explains more about how AR works in this example. When the AR replicator role is not collocated with an OISM border leaf role on the same device, as in this example, we say the AR replicator operates in standalone AR replicator mode. The OISM SL and BL devices act as AR leaf devices. We call devices that don’t support AR regular network virtualization edge (RNVE) devices. The test environment includes an SL device (see SL-3 in Figure 91 on page 548) on which we don’t configure the AR leaf role to simulate an RNVE device. With RNVE devices in the fabric:

• The RNVE devices use ingress replication to forward multicast traffic to other leaf devices in the

fabric.

• The AR replicators use ingress replication instead of AR to forward multicast source data to the

RNVE devices. In this chapter, we show configuration and verification for a small subset of the scaled environment in which we validate OISM and AR together. Although the scaled test environment includes more devices, configured elements, multicast sources, and subscribed receivers, in this example we show configuration and verification output for the following elements:

• One EVPN instance, MACVRF-1, which is a MAC-VRF instance with VLAN-aware service type and

VXLAN encapsulation.

• Multicast stream use cases that encompass:

551

• IGMPv2 or IGMPv3 traffic.

• Internal or external multicast sources.

• Two tenant VRF instances, one for IGMPv3 receivers and one for IGMPv2 receivers.

For each tenant VRF instance, we define:

• Four tenant VLANs with VXLAN tunnel network identifier (VNI) mappings, and corresponding IRB

interfaces in the tenant VRF instance. In the OISM design, we refer to the tenant VLANs as revenue bridge domains or revenue VLANs.

• One SBD VLAN mapped to a VNI, and a corresponding IRB interface in the tenant VRF instance.

• One multicast source inside the data center, and one multicast source outside the data center in the

external PIM domain. You configure the BL devices to act as PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) devices for the EVPN fabric. In this example, we connect PEG devices through classic L3 interfaces to an external PIM router and PIM rendezvous point (RP). The L3 interfaces on each of the BL PEG devices link to the external PIM router on different subnets.

• Multicast receivers that subscribe to one or more multicast groups.

NOTE: Each multicast stream has multiple receivers subscribed to traffic from each source. The multicast traffic verification commands in this example focus on the first receiver device in the Receivers column in Table 19 on page 551. See Table 19 on page 551 for a summary of these elements and their values. Figure 91 on page 548 illustrates the device roles and the first two corresponding IRB interfaces, VLANs, and VNI mappings for each of the tenant VRFs in the table. Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example

| Multicast Stream | Tenant VRF | VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and VNI Mappings |  | Source | Receivers | Multicast Groups |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | VRF-1 | VLAN-1, irb.1 | VNI 110001 | TOR-1 on VLAN-1 (Multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2) | TOR-4 (Multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5) Other receivers: |  |
|  |  | VLAN-2, irb.2 | VNI 110002 |  |  |  |

552 Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example (Continued)

Multicast Stream

Tenant VRF

VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and VNI Mappings

Source

Receivers

Multicast Groups

VLAN-3, irb.3

VNI 110003

TOR-2 (Single- homed to SL-3) TOR-3 (Multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5) TOR-5 (Single- homed to SL-6)

VLAN-4, irb.4

VNI 110004

(SBD) VLAN-2001, irb.2001

VNI 992001

VRF-101

VLAN-401, irb.401

VNI 110401

External Source (In External PIM Domain)

TOR-1 on VLAN-1 (Multihomed to SL-1 and SL2) Other receivers: TOR-2 (Single- homed to SL-3) TOR-3 (Multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5) TOR-4 (Multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5) TOR-5 (Single-

VLAN-402, irb.402

VNI 110402

VLAN-403, irb.403

VNI 110403

VLAN-404, irb.404

VNI 110404

553 Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example (Continued) See Table 20 on page 553 for a summary of the BL device and external PIM router L3 connection parameters. In this example, the BL devices both use aggregated Ethernet (AE) interface ae3 for the external L3 connection, with different subnets per BL device. In the scaled-out test environment, the configuration uses a range of logical units on the ae3 interface with corresponding VLANs per tenant VRF, starting with unit 0 and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1. We focus on tenant VRF instances VRF-1 and VRF-101 in this example.

Table 20: External Multicast L3 Interface Parameters

You configure these parameters in "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571. We divide the configuration into several sections.

| Multicast Stream | Tenant VRF | VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and VNI Mappings |  | Source | Receivers | Multicast Groups |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  |  | (SBD) VLAN-2101, irb.2101 | VNI 992101 |  | homed to SL-6) |  |

| BL Device | Tenant VRF Instance | External L3 Interface Logical Unit | Associated VLAN | BL L3 Logical Interface IP Address | PIM Router Logical Interface and IP Address | PIM RP Logical Unit and IP Address |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | VRF-1 | unit 0: ae3.0 | VLAN-3001 | 172.30.0.1 | ae1.0: 172.30.0.0 |  |
|  | VRF-101 | unit 100: ae3.100 | VLAN-3101 | 172.30.100.1 | ae1.100: 172.30.100.0 |  |
|  | VRF-1 | unit 0: ae3.0 | VLAN-3001 | 172.31.0.1 | ae2.0: 172.31.0.0 |  |
|  | VRF-101 | unit 100: ae3.100 | VLAN-3101 | 172.31.100.1 | ae2.100: 172.31.100.0 |  |

554 Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP) We use eBGP for the underlay and iBGP for the overlay following the reference architectures in "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 and "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. This example uses AE interfaces with one or two member links each for all of the connections for redundancy.

• Figure 92 on page 555 shows the AE interface IP addresses for the links between the S-ARR

devices and the BL devices. NOTE: You configure the L3 interfaces from the BL devices to the external PIM router in "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571

• Figure 93 on page 556 shows the AE interface IP addresses for the links between the S-ARR

devices and the SL devices. NOTE: You configure the links from the SL devices to the TOR devices in "Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN Multihoming" on page 566

555 Figure 92: OISM BL Device Links to S-ARR Devices and External PIM Router

556 Figure 93: OISM SL Device Links to S-ARR Devices and TOR Devices

1. Configure the approximate number of aggregated Ethernet (AE) interfaces in the configuration.

For example:

All SL and BL Devices:

S-ARR Devices:

2. Follow the procedure in "Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices

to Leaf Devices" on page 84 to configure the AE interfaces for the underlay on all the BL, SL, and S- ARR devices. See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556 for the device IP addresses, AS numbers, and the AE interface names and IP addresses in this example.

557

3. Configure the eBGP underlay on the BL and SL devices. On each BL and SL device, set S-ARR-1 (AS:

4200000021) and S-ARR-2 (AS: 4200000022) as BGP neighbors. Similarly, on each S-ARR device,

set each of the BL and SL devices as BGP neighbors. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 for details. See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556 for the device IP addresses, AS numbers, and the AE interface names and IP addresses in this example. For example: SL-1 (device AS: 4200000011):

4. Configure the iBGP overlay with an overlay AS number and EVPN signaling on the SL, BL, and S-ARR

devices. See "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97 for details. On each SL and BL device, set the spine devices S-ARR-1 (lo0:192.168.2.1) and S-ARR-2 (192.168.2.2) in the overlay AS as BGP neighbors. For example: SL-1 (device lo0: 192.168.0.1):

558 Repeat this step for each SL and BL device, substituting that device loopback IP address for the localaddress option. See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556. On each S-ARR device, set all of the SL and BL devices in the overlay AS as BGP neighbors. For example: S-ARR-1 (device lo0: 192.168.2.1):

5. Set MAC aging, Address Resolution Protocol (ARP), and Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) timer

values to support MAC address learning and IPv4 and IPv6 route learning. These parameters are common settings in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics and are not specific to the OISM or AR feature configurations.

559 Set these values on all SL and BL devices. Set the NDP stale timer on all IRB interfaces for IPv6 neighbor reachability confirmation on all SL and BL devices for IPv6 unicast traffic. NOTE: You apply this setting to all IRB interfaces that might handle IPv6 unicast traffic, so you usually add this statement to a configuration group of common statements and apply the group to all interfaces.

Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance

The scaled test environment includes multiple MAC-VRF EVPN instances. We show one instance called MACVRF-1 here that we use for OISM and AR traffic. NOTE: We require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. This feature prevents problems with VTEP scaling on the device when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF instances. When you configure shared tunnels, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. You globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device using the shared-tunnels statement at the [edit forwarding-options evpn-vxlan] hierarchy level. You must reboot the device for this setting to take effect. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS, which can handle higher VTEP scaling than the QFX5000 line of switches. On devices running Junos OS Evolved in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, shared tunnels are enabled by default. Configure the elements in these steps on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices. NOTE: This example includes the AR multicast optimization with OISM. The spine devices (S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2) in the fabric serve as standalone AR replicator devices.

560 For AR to work with the regular OISM symmetric bridge domains model, you must also configure all the common OISM SL and BL elements on the standalone AR replicator devices, such as the MAC-VRF instance, VLANs, tenant VRFs, and IRB interfaces. If the spine devices don’t run as AR replicators, you don’t need to configure these elements on the spine devices.

1. Configure MACVRF-1, an EVPN MAC-VRF instance with the VLAN-aware service type. Specify the

VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) source interface as the device loopback interface. Set a route distinguisher and route target (with automatic route target derivation) for the instance. Also, enable all VNIs in the instance to extend into the EVPN BGP domain. For example:

SL-1:

Repeat this step on the remaining SL devices, BL-1, BL-2, S-ARR-1, and S-ARR-2. In the configuration on each device, substitute that device’s IP address as part of the route-distinguisher statement value so these values are unique across the devices.

2. Configure platform-specific settings required in scaled EVPN-VXLAN environments. You configure

these options on the devices in the fabric that operate in any OISM or AR role.

a. On Junos OS devices in the QFX5000 line of switches , include the global shared tunnels

configuration statement. This setting supports VXLAN tunneling with MAC-VRF instances on those devices in scaled environments:

561 NOTE: If you need to configure the shared tunnels setting here, after you commit the configuration, you must reboot the device for the shared tunnels setting to take affect. The shared tunnels feature is set by default on devices that run Junos OS Evolved.

b. On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, configure the host-profile unified forwarding profile option

to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):

c. On QFX5110 and QFX5120 switches, configure next hop settings for scaled environments to

ensure next hops table size is proportional to the device capacity, as follows: QFX5110 switches: QFX5120 switches:

3. Configure the OISM revenue VLANs and SBD VLANs in the EVPN MACVRF-1 instance. Map each

VLAN to a VXLAN VNI value. Also, create IRB interfaces for each VLAN. See Table 19 on page 551 for the VLANs and VNI values we use in this example. You configure one SBD and corresponding IRB for each VRF. Configure these elements on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

562

4. Enable OISM globally on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

NOTE: The S-ARR spine devices in this example serve as standalone AR replicator devices, so you must enable OISM on them too. If the spine devices don’t run as AR replicators, you don’t need to enable OISM on those devices.

5. Enable IGMP snooping in the MAC-VRF instance for all OISM tenant (revenue) VLANs and SBD

VLANs on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices. NOTE: You enable IGMP snooping on the S-ARR devices because they act as AR replicator devices. AR replicators use IGMP snooping to optimize traffic forwarding.

563 In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support IGMPv2 traffic with ASM reports only. We support IGMPv3 traffic with SSM reports only. When you enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv3 traffic, include the SSMspecific option evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option as shown below. See Supported IGMP or MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with EVPN-VXLAN. IGMP snooping with IGMPv2 on all VLANs: IGMP snooping on VLANs with IGMPv3 receivers (VLAN-1 through VLAN-4, according to Table 19 on page 551):

6. Enable IGMP on the IRB interfaces that handle multicast traffic on the SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

IGMPv2 is enabled by default when you configure PIM, but you need to explicitly enable IGMPv3 on the IRB interfaces that handle IGMPv3 traffic. According to Table 19 on page 551, the IGMPv3 IRB interfaces are irb.1, irb.2, irb.3, and irb.4, which are associated with VRF-1:

7. (Required on any devices configured as AR replicators with OISM, and on the QFX10000 line of

switches and the PTX10000 line of routers in any OISM role only in releases prior to Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved Release 23.4R1) To avoid traffic loss at the onset of multicast flows, set the install-star-g-routes option at the [edit routing-instances name multicast-snooping-options oism] hierarchy. You set this parameter in the MAC-VRF instance. With this option, the Routing Engine installs (*,G) multicast routes on the Packet Forwarding Engine for all of the OISM revenue VLANs in the routing instance immediately upon learning about any interested receiver. See Latency and Scaling Trade- Offs for Installing Multicast Routes with OISM (install-star-g-routes Option) for more on using this option. For example, in this test environment, S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 are AR replicators, so we configure this statement in the MAC-VRF routing instance on those devices. Also, SL-4 and SL-5 are switches in the

564 QFX10000 line switches, so if those devices are running earlier releases than Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved Release 23.4R1, you would also configure this statement on those devices. Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast

Receivers

The scaled test environment includes many tenant L3 VRF instances. We show the VRF instances for the two multicast use cases in Table 19 on page 551:

• VRF-1 for IGMPv3 traffic pulled from an internal source.

• VRF-101 for IGMPv2 traffic pulled from an external source.

Configure the elements in these steps in those VRF instances on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices. NOTE: The S-ARR spine devices in this example also serve as standalone AR replicator devices, so you must configure all the tenant VRF settings on them too. If the spine devices don’t run as AR replicators, you don’t need to include these steps on those devices. You also configure different PIM options in the tenant VRF instances for SL devices compared to BL devices. See "Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices" on page 570 and "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571 for those configuration steps. You don’t need to configure PIM on the S-ARR devices.

1. Configure the tenant VRF instances.

Include the IRB interfaces associated with each tenant VRF instance. Set a route distinguisher based on the device IP address, and a route target for the instance. For example:

SL-1:

565 Repeat this step on the remaining SL devices, BL-1, BL-2, S-ARR-1, and S-ARR-2. On each device, configure the route-distinguisher to be unique across the devices and tenant VRFs. Substitute the device IP address from Figure 92 on page 555 or Figure 93 on page 556, and the VRF instance number for each tenant VRF, as follows:

• On SL-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.0.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.0.2:101 for VRF-101.

On SL-3, use route-distinguisher 192.168.0.3:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.0.3:101 for VRF-101. And so on for the remaining SL devices.

• On BL-1, use route-distinguisher 192.168.5.1:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.5.1:101 for VRF-101.

On BL-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.5.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.5.2:101 for VRF-101.

• On S-ARR-1, use route-distinguisher 192.168.2.1:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.2.1:101 for VRF-101.

On S-ARR-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.2.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.2.2:101 for VRF-101.

2. In each VRF instance, include the corresponding IRB interfaces for the OISM revenue VLANs and the

SBD associated with that instance, according to Table 19 on page 551: Repeat the same configuration all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

3. Identify the IRB interface for the OISM SBD associated with each tenant VRF instance, as outlined in

Table 19 on page 551:

566 Repeat the same configuration all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

4. On any SL, BL, and S-ARR devices that have a single Routing Engine, configure the graceful restart

feature for each tenant VRF: Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment

Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN Multihoming

The TOR devices host the multicast sources and receivers inside the fabric. These devices have singlehomed or multihomed connections to the SL devices in the EVPN core. See Figure 93 on page 556 for the topology in this example. TOR-1, TOR-3, and TOR-4 are each multihomed to two SL devices, and TOR-2 and TOR-5 are single-homed. Figure 93 on page 556 shows that:

• The SL devices all use interface ae3 to connect to the TOR devices.

• SL4 and SL-5 use interfaces ae3 and ae5 for redundant connections to TOR-3 and TOR-4,

respectively.

• Each multihomed TOR device uses interfaces ae1 and ae2 to connect to its peer SL devices.

• For consistency in the configuration, the single-homed TORs (TOR-2 and TOR-5) also use interfaces

ae1 and ae2 but as redundant links to a single SL device. Also, starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2, you can additionally configure the network isolation feature on the multihomed TOR-facing interfaces on the SL devices to help mitigate traffic loss during core isolation events on those interfaces. In this example, Step 4 shows how to configure the network isolation feature on the interfaces from SL-1 and SL-2 to multihomed device TOR-1. NOTE: Although this example doesn't show any multihomed server-facing or TOR-facing interfaces on the BL devices, you can similarly configure the network isolation feature for any such interfaces on BL devices.

1. Configure the server leaf to TOR interfaces and Ethernet segment identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN

multihoming. On multihoming peer SL devices, configure the same ESI on the AE interface links to the multihomed TOR device. Also enable LACP and LACP hold timers on the interfaces. See "Multihoming an

567 Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229 for more details on configuring these interfaces and the corresponding Ethernet segment identifiers (ESIs). NOTE: See Step 4 in this section to add configuring the device to detect and take action upon network isolation events on these interfaces. If you include that configuration, make sure the "up" hold timer configured here in this step is greater than the "up" hold timer in the network isolation group profile in that step. For example: On SL-1 for the multihoming interfaces to TOR-1: Repeat this configuration on SL-2, the multihoming peer to SL-1. Use the corresponding interface for the link on SL-2 to TOR-1, and the same ESI. On SL-2 for the multihoming interfaces to TOR-1:

2. Repeat the configuration in Step 1 above on the other SL devices that serve multihomed TOR

devices. Use a different ESI for each corresponding multihoming peer SL device pair. See Figure 93 on page

556. In this example, all SL devices use ae3 to link to the TOR devices. SL-4 and SL-5 use ae3 to link

568 to TOR-3, and additionally use ae5 to link to TOR-4. As a result, you set one ESI for the ae3 links and a different ESI for the ae5 links on both of those SL devices. Here we assign ESI values with the following conventions:

• The 6th segment from the right in the ESI value matches the number of the multihomed TOR.

• The last segment of the ESI value matches the AE interface number.

For example:

• On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to multihomed TOR-3 (link is ae3 on both SL devices):

• On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to multihomed TOR-4 (link is ae5 on both SL devices):

TOR-2 is single-homed to SL-3, so you don’t configure an ESI on the ae3 interface on SL-3. Similarly, TOR-5 is single-homed to SL-6, so you don’t configure an ESI on the ae3 interface on SL-6. NOTE: The test environment also includes separate AE interfaces (ae4 on each SL device) and ESIs (for the multihomed TOR devices) that the fabric uses for unicast traffic. We only show configuring the multicast ESIs here.

3. Include the interfaces to the TOR devices in the MAC-VRF instance on each SL device—ae3 on all SL

devices, and also ae5 on SL-4 and SL-5. For example: On SL-1 for the interface to TOR-1 (and repeat this configuration on SL-2 for the interface to TOR-1, SL-3 for the interface to TOR-2, and SL-6 for the interface to TOR-5): On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to TOR-3 and TOR-4:

569

4. (Optional in releases starting with Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2 with this OISM

configuration) Configure the network isolation service-tracking feature on SL-1 and SL-2 for interface ae3 to TOR-1. With this feature, the device changes the interface status upon detecting and recovering from a core isolation event. See Layer 2 Interface Status Tracking and Shutdown Actions for EVPN Core Isolation Conditions, network-isolation, and network-isolation-profile for details on how this feature works. To enable this feature, we:

• Set up a network isolation group net-isolation-grp-1 with core isolation service tracking using the

network-isolation statement.

• Include an "up" hold time (in ms) that the device will wait upon detecting recovery from network

isolation before acting to bring the interface up again. NOTE: The "up" hold time you configure here for core isolation event detection should be less than the general "up" hold timer on the interfaces for the ESI in Step

1. For example, in that step, the interface "up" hold timer is 300000 ms; here, we set

the "up" hold timer for the network isolation group to 100000 ms.

• Configure the device to set either lacp-out-of-sync or link-down status on the interface as the core

isolation action. For example, here we set the lacp-out-of-sync action.

• Apply the network isolation group to the interface using the network-isolation-profile statement.

• Because core isolation service tracking improves the convergence time for the ESI routes, we

don't need to include a delay in the overlay BGP route advertisements. As a result, on devices where we configure the network isolation feature on TOR-facing interfaces, we remove the delayroute-advertisements settings from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP)" on page 554. For example: On SL-1 for the multihoming interface(s) to TOR-1:

570 Repeat this configuration on SL-2 for ae3 with the same network isolation group profile parameters. You can set up the same or similar network isolation group profiles on the other multihoming peer SL devices, SL-4 and SL-5, which use ae3 for the ESI to TOR-3 and ae5 for the ESI to TOR-4. Also, when we enable the network isolation feature on the SL device interfaces, with that configuration we remove the overlay route advertisement delay setting on the device. We still need to retain the overlay delay-route-advertisements minimum-delay routing-uptime setting on S-ARR-1 and S- ARR-2 from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP)" on page

554. However, with the network isolation feature configured in the network, we observed better

results testing with a higher setting on the S-ARR devices than the setting in that step. As a result, in this case we recommend you also change the following: On S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP)" on page 554: change that configuration to: Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices In this procedure, you configure the OISM elements specific to server leaf functions, such as PIM, in the tenant VRF instances in this example—VRF-1 and VRF-101. Configure these steps on all SL devices.

1. (Optional) Configure an OSPF area for each tenant VRF, but with all interfaces on the SL devices in

OSPF passive mode so the devices can advertise routes but don't form OSPF adjacencies.

571

2. Configure PIM in passive mode on the SL devices for all interfaces in each of the VRF routing

instances.

3. Set the PIM accept-remote-source option to enable the SL devices to accept multicast traffic from the

SBD IRB interface as the source interface. With the regular OISM symmetric bridge domains model, any multicast traffic coming from external sources arrives at the SL devices on the SBD. Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity,

PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options

In this procedure, you configure the OISM elements specific to border leaf functions, including the steps to connect to the external PIM domain. Configure statements in this procedure on each BL device. NOTE: This example connects to the external PIM router using classic L3 interface links. OISM supports additional methods to connect to the external domain depending on the platform of the BL device. See External Multicast Connection Methods in the EVPN User Guide for a list of supported external multicast methods per platform.

1. Configure the L3 interfaces that connect to the external PIM router.

In this example, both BL devices use interface ae3 for this purpose with a different subnet for each BL device connection per tenant VRF. The physical interfaces in the AE interface bundle might differ across the BL devices. Figure 92 on page 555 shows the BL device and link information for this example. The external L3 multicast connection uses the ae3 interface with VLAN tagging enabled. In the scaled environment, we configure logical units on the ae3 interface and corresponding VLANs per tenant VRF starting with unit 0 and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1. In this example we show configuring ae3.0 in VRF-1 and ae3.100 in VRF-101 on both BL devices. See Table 20 on page 553 for a summary of the external L3 interface connection configuration parameters.

572

BL-1:

BL-2:

2. Include the logical L3 interfaces in the tenant VRF instances. Both BL devices use ae3 for the

external multicast connection, so use the same configuration on both devices. BL-1 and BL-2:

3. Configure each of the BL devices with the OISM PEG role in each tenant VRF.

573 BL-1 and BL-2:

4. Configure PIM in the tenant VRF instances, including the following for each tenant VRF in this

example:

• In this environment, set a static PIM RP address corresponding to the external PIM router and RP

router (one for each logical unit and associated tenant VRF).

• Configure PIM on the OISM revenue VLAN IRB interfaces and include the PIM distributed-dr

option.

• Configure classic PIM (no distributed-dr option) on the SBD IRB interface, the logical unit L3

interface and logical loopback interface. With PIM on the SBD IRB interface, include the accept-remote-source option to enable the BL devices to accept multicast traffic from the SBD IRB interface as the source interface. This option handles situations where the BL devices might send source traffic to each other on the SBD. See Multicast Traffic from an External Source to Receivers Inside the EVPN Data Center—L3 Interface Method or Non-EVPN IRB Method in the EVPN User Guide for more information on those situations.

• With PIM on the SBD IRB interface, enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) and the

stickydr option. The BFD settings improve convergence time with interface issues to help avoid traffic loss. The stickydr option eliminates designated router switchover convergence delay during reboot events. Include the same configuration on BL-1 and BL-2.

For VRF-1:

574

For VRF-101:

See OISM Components in the EVPN User Guide for details on why we configure these PIM options on the BL devices.

5. Configure an OSPF area for each tenant VRF instance that includes the external multicast logical L3

interface and the SBD IRB interface, both in OSPF active mode. This step establishes an OSPF routing domain with these interfaces as neighbors in the tenant VRF to support routing among them. Include the other interfaces on the device in the OSPF area but in OSPF passive mode, so they can advertise routes but don't form OSPF adjacencies. You also define and include the export-direct export policy, which exports addresses of the directlyconnected IRB interfaces on a particular BL device into the OSPF routing protocol. The configuration is the same on both BL devices. BL-1 and BL-2:

575 Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router In this example, an MX Series router acts as the external PIM domain router and PIM RP device. In this procedure, we include the configuration on this device that matches the BL device configuration in "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571. This information helps you interpret show command output to verify the setup, connectivity, and group memberships established for the OISM and AR devices in the fabric. The PIM router and RP router configuration includes:

• Connections to BL-1 on interface ae1 and to BL-2 on interface ae2, with VLAN-tagging enabled.

• Routing instances of type virtual-router (PIM-GW-VR-n) that correspond to each tenant VRF-n in the

OISM configuration on the BL devices.

• Logical units on ae1 and ae2 with corresponding VLANs per virtual router VRF, starting with unit 0

and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1.

• A PIM RP IP address for each virtual router VRF instance.

This procedure shows configuring the following on the PIM router and RP router, as listed in Table 20 on page 553:

• PIM-GW-VR-1 (corresponding to VRF-1) and VLAN 3001 with:

• Interface ae1.0 to BL-1.

• Interface ae2.0 to BL-2.

• PIM-GW-VR-101 (corresponding to VRF-101) and VLAN-3101 with:

• Interface ae1.100 to BL-1.

• Interface ae2.100 to BL-2.

1. Configure the L3 interfaces on the PIM router that connect to the BL devices (ae1 to BL-1 and ae2 to

BL-2).

576

2. Configure virtual router routing instances corresponding to the OISM tenant VRFs and VLANs in this

example. Include the L3 interfaces to BL-1 and BL-2 in the routing instances, as well as the device logical loopback interface and logical interfaces that connect to the external source for each routing instance.

3. In each of the routing instances, configure PIM, a static IP address for the PIM RP, and an OSPF area

for PIM for the interfaces. See Table 20 on page 553 for the PIM RP static addresses we use in this example.

577 Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role

on OISM Leaf Devices

In an ERB overlay fabric, you can enable OISM with AR. You can assign the AR replicator role to one or more spine devices in the fabric. When a spine device runs as an AR replicator, the AR replicator operates in standalone AR replicator mode. This means the AR replicator role is not collocated with the OISM border leaf role on the device. When an ingress AR leaf device needs to forward multicast traffic to other AR leaf devices, it uses an AR overlay VXLAN tunnel to send only one copy of the traffic to an available AR replicator device instead. Then, also using AR overlay VXLAN tunnels, the AR replicator device replicates and forwards the traffic to the other AR leaf devices with receivers that subscribed to the multicast stream. AR replicators use ingress replication instead of AR to forward multicast traffic directly to leaf devices that don’t support AR (what we call RNVE devices). AR leaf devices balance the load of AR replicator requests among the available AR replicator devices using one of two methods, depending on the leaf device platform:

• QFX5000 line of switches (models that run either Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved)—These devices

designate a particular AR replicator device for traffic associated with each VLAN or VNI. In this case, the show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops CLI command output shows the designated AR replicator for each VNI as the (Designated Node).

• QFX10000 line of switches—These devices actively load-balance among the AR replicators based on

traffic flow levels within a VNI. The device doesn’t designate a particular AR replicator for each VNI. In this example, we have multicast flows from an internal source and an external source. The ERB overlay fabric spine devices (S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2) act as AR replicator devices. The OISM SL and BL devices act as AR leaf devices, except SL-3, which simulates an RNVE device (we don’t enable the AR leaf role on that device). Figure 94 on page 578 shows how AR works if we consider the multicast streams and corresponding fabric parameters in this example from Table 19 on page 551.

578 Figure 94: AR with OISM Internal and External Multicast Sources

• In the internal source use case:

1. SL-1 is the ingress device for an internal multicast stream from multihomed TOR-1 on source

VLAN VLAN-1 for traffic to receivers in tenant VRF VRF-1.

2. SL-1 (a QFX5120 switch) forwards the traffic to its designated AR replicator for VLAN-1 (VNI

110001). The designated AR replicator is S-ARR-1 in this case.

3. S-ARR-1 replicates and forwards the stream on the source VLAN to the AR leaf devices that host

TOR devices with subscribed receivers.

4. The destination SL devices forward or locally route the traffic to their subscribed receivers.

• In the external source use case:

579

1. BL-1 is the ingress device for an external multicast stream from the external PIM domain for

traffic to receivers in tenant VRF VRF-101.

2. BL-1 (a QFX5130 switch) forwards the traffic to its designated AR replicator for the SBD VLAN,

VLAN-2101 (VNI 992101). The designated AR replicator is S-ARR-2 in this case.

3. S-ARR-2 replicates and forwards the stream on the SBD VLAN using AR tunnels to the AR leaf

devices that host TORs with subscribed receivers.

4. S-ARR-2 also replicates the stream and uses an ingress replication (IR) tunnel to forward the

stream to SL-3, an RNVE leaf device that hosts a TOR device with a subscribed receiver.

5. The destination SL devices forward or locally route the traffic toward their subscribed receivers.

For more details on AR device roles, how AR works, and other use cases besides the ones in this example, see Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks. To configure AR in this example:

1. Configure the AR replicator role on the S-ARR devices.

a. Configure the device loopback interface lo0 with a secondary IP address specifically for AR

functions. The AR replicator advertises this IP address to the network in EVPN Type 3 AR tunnel routes. We include the primary loopback address configuration statements here as well so you can more easily identify each S-ARR device.

S-ARR-1:

S-ARR-2:

b. Configure the AR replicator role on S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 in the MAC-VRF instance, using the

secondary AR loopback interface you configured in the previous step.

580

S-ARR-1:

S-ARR-2:

c. On AR replicator devices in standalone mode, you must also configure the common OISM

elements that you configure on the OISM SL and BL devices. You configure those elements in earlier steps in this example. See:

• "Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance" on page 559

• "Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers" on page

564 You don't need to configure any of the PIM or external multicast elements specific to OISM BL or SL devices.

2. Configure the AR leaf role in the MAC-VRF instance on the OISM BL devices and all SL devices

except the RNVE device in this example, SL-3. Include the replicator-activation-delay option as shown. By default, AR leaf devices delay 10 seconds after receiving an AR replicator advertisement before starting to send traffic to that AR replicator device. In a scaled environment, we recommend you make the delay longer to ensure the AR replicator devices have fully learned the current EVPN state from the network. The delay also helps in cases when an AR replicator goes down and comes up again.

BL-1, BL-2, SL-1, SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6:

We skip this configuration on SL-3, which acts as a device that doesn’t support AR.

581 Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation You can use the show commands in the following steps to verify OISM and AR configuration and operation.

1. Verify the underlay and overlay configurations and confirm the fabric has established the BGP state

and traffic paths among the devices. SL-1 (device lo0: 192.168.0.1): Run this command on each SL, BL, and S-ARR device in the fabric.

2. Verify the configured VTEPs in the MAC-VRF EVPN instance on the SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.

You can use the show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote command, or its alias, the show macvrf forwarding vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote command (where supported). For example:

582

SL-1:

NOTE: You also see the AR role of the device on each remote VTEP in the RVTEP- Mode column of the output from this command, as follows

• The primary loopback IP address on an AR replicator device is the ingress

replication (IR) IP address, which the device uses to forward traffic to RNVE devices. That’s why you see “RNVE” as the role corresponding to the S-ARR device primary loopback addresses in the RVTEP-IP column.

• The secondary loopback IP address you assign for the AR replicator role is the AR

IP address. You see “Replicator” as the role for those RVTEP-IP addresses in this output.

• The AR leaf devices and the RNVE device only use IR tunnels, so this command

displays “Leaf” or “RNVE” role corresponding to the primary loopback IP address for those devices in the RVTEP-IP column. Run this command on each SL, BL, and S-ARR device in the fabric.

583

3. Verify the SL device to TOR device links. These links are ae3 on each SL device. Also, SL-4 and SL-5

are multihoming peers for both TOR-3 and TOR-4, and use ae5 for those additional TOR device links. (See Figure 93 on page 556.) For example: SL-1 to TOR-1: SL-2 to TOR-1:

584 Repeat this command on each SL device for interface ae3, and on SL-4 and SL-5, repeat this command for ae5.

4. Verify external L3 interface OSPF neighbor reachability on the BL devices for each tenant VRF

instance.

BL-1:

BL-2:

585

5. Verify the PIM router and RP device connections from the external PIM router and RP device to the

BL devices.

586

6. Verify AR leaf overlay tunnel load balancing to the available AR replicator devices.

The AR leaf devices detect the advertised AR replicator devices and load-balance among them using different methods based on the leaf device platform. (See AR Leaf Device Load Balancing with Multiple Replicators for details.) In this example, SL-1 is a QFX5120 switch, so as an AR leaf device, SL-1 load balances by assigning an AR replicator device to each VLAN or VNI. Run the show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops instance mac-vrf-instance command on the AR leaf devices to see the overlay tunnels and load-balancing next hops to the available AR replicators. On SL devices that designate AR replicators by VNI, the output of this command tags the AR replicator as the (Designated Node). The output doesn’t include this tag on AR leaf devices that load balance based on active traffic flow. For example, the output here for SL-1 shows that the device assigned:

• S-ARR-1 as the designated replicator for configured VNIs 110001 and 110003 (which

corresponds to VLAN-1 and VLAN-3, respectively)

• S-ARR-2 as the designated replicator for configured VNI 110002 and 110004 (which

correspond to VLAN-2 and VLAN-4, respectively)

SL-1:

587 Run this command on the SL and BL devices in the fabric.

7. Verify PIM join and multicast group status for a multicast stream from a source inside the fabric

behind TOR-1. TOR-1 is multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2 (see Figure 91 on page 548). Receivers on the TOR devices connected to the other SL devices subscribe to multicast groups hosted by this source as listed in Table 19 on page 551. The stream we verify here is intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN traffic with source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs VLAN-2, VLAN-3, and VLAN-4. With AR enabled, the ingress SL device forwards the multicast source traffic to the designated AR replicator. See Figure 94 on page 578. The AR replicator forwards copies to the SL devices with subscribed receivers on the source VLAN, VLAN-1. Then the SL devices forward the traffic toward the receivers on VLAN-1. In this step, you run the commands only for VRF-1, which is the tenant VRF that hosts the internal multicast source traffic in this example. Also, this stream is an IGMPv3 stream with SSM reports, so you see only (S,G) multicast routes. In this case, the output shows the source behind TOR-1 has source IP address 10.0.1.12. In this step, we show running verification commands for:

• PIM join status on SL-1 and SL-2 for the source on multihomed device TOR-1.

The show pim join summary output shows that the SL devices serving TOR-1 saw joins for a total of 6 multicast groups.

• IGMP snooping multicast group membership status for the receiver behind device TOR-4, which

is multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5. The show igmp snooping membership output shows the multicast group joins from the receiver behind TOR-4. TOR-4 hashes the join messages to either of the multihoming peer SL devices. The number of joins on both devices together (3 on each device) equals the total number of joins in the show pim join summary output (6).

588

• PIM join status summary and details on SL-4 and SL-5 for the receiver behind multihomed

device TOR-4. When the show pim join extensive output on SL-4 and SL-5 show the same upstream and downstream IRB interface, the device is bridging the multicast stream within the same VLAN. When the downstream IRB interfaces are different from the upstream IRB interface, the device is routing the multicast stream between VLANs.

• The designated forwarder among multihoming peers SL-4 and SL-5 that the device elected to

forward the traffic to the receiver behind multihomed TOR-4. We run the show evpn instance MACVRF-1 designated-forwarder esi command for the ESI you configured on the ae5 interfaces from SL-4 and SL-5 to TOR-4. SL-1: Internal source—PIM join status for VRF-1: SL-2: Internal source—PIM join status for VRF-1: SL-4: Receiver—Multicast group membership status on source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs VLAN-1 through VLAN-4::

589

590

591 SL-5: Receiver—Multicast group membership status on source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs VLAN-1 through VLAN-4:

592

593

594 SL-4: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-1:

595 SL-5: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-1:

596

597 SL-4: Check the designated forwarder to the receiver behind TOR-4: Recall that in the SL device configuration, we assign ae5 as the link from both SL-4 and SL5 to TOR-4. We set ESI 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05 on those links. The following output shows that SL-4 is not the designated forwarder for this ESI. SL-5: Check the designated forwarder to the receiver behind TOR-4: The following output confirms that SL-5 (lo0.0 192.168.0.5) is the designated forwarder for ESI 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05.

8. Verify PIM join and multicast group status for a multicast stream from a source outside the fabric in

the external PIM domain. See Figure 91 on page 548. Receivers behind the TOR devices connected to the SL devices subscribe to multicast groups hosted by this source as listed in Table 19 on page

551. The ingress BL device routes the external source traffic from the L3 interface connection to

the SBD VLAN (VLAN-2101 in this case).

598 With AR enabled, the BL device forwards the traffic on the SBD VLAN to an AR replicator (either the designated AR replicator or an AR replicator based on traffic load-balancing, depending on the BL device platform). See Figure 94 on page 578. The AR replicator forwards copies on the SBD to the SL devices with subscribed receivers. Then the SL devices forward or locally route the traffic toward the receivers on the tenant VLANs. In this step, you run the commands only for VRF-101, which is the tenant VRF that hosts external multicast source traffic in this example. Also, this stream is an IGMPv2 stream with ASM reports, so you see only (*,G) multicast routes. In this step, you run verification commands for:

• PIM join status on BL-1 and BL-2 as the ingress devices for the external multicast source.

• IGMP snooping multicast group membership status for a receiver behind device TOR-1, which is

multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2.

• PIM join status on SL-1 and SL-2 for the receiver on multihomed device TOR-1.

BL-1: Ingress BL device for external source—PIM join status for VRF-101:

599 BL-2: Ingress BL device for external source—PIM join status for VRF-101:

600

601 SL-1: Receiver—Multicast group membership status for VLANs associated with VRF-101 (VLAN-401 through VLAN-404):

602 SL-2: Receiver—Multicast group membership status for VLANs associated with VRF-101 (VLAN-401 through VLAN-404):

603

604 SL-1: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-101:

605 SL-2: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-101:

606

607

9. Verify the OISM devices use EVPN Type 6 (SMET) routes to optimize multicast traffic flow in the

EVPN core. View the Type 6 routes in the EVPN routing tables (bgp.evpn.0 and MACVRF-1.evpn.0) on OISM leaf devices and the spine devices that act as AR replicators. Type 6 routes are advertised only on the SBD VLAN. For example, here we view Type 6 routes for interested receivers behind TOR-4, which is multihomed to peer SL devices SL-4 and SL-5. We show results for parameters of the featured multicast stream in Table 19 on page 551 for tenant VRF-1, with IGMPv3 traffic between an internal source and internal receivers:

• VLANs: VLAN-1 through VLAN-4, which map to VNIs 110001 through 110004

• SBD VLAN: VLAN-2001, which maps to VNI 992001

• Internal source: Behind SL-1 and SL-2 on TOR-1, with internal IP address 10.0.1.12

• Multicast groups: 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123

These commands show:

• S-ARR-1 and SL-ARR-2 received Type 6 routes from SL-4 and SL-5 on the SBD (VLAN-2001 VNI

992001).

• SL-4 (lo0: 192.168.0.4) and SL-5 (lo0: 192.168.0.5) received joins from a receiver behind

multihomed TOR-4 for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123.

• Source (10.0.1.12) and Group information, because the receivers send IGMPv3 joins.

For S-ARR-1 — Type 6 routes from SL-4 and SL-5: S-ARR-1 links to SL-4 on ae4 (172.16.7.0/31).

608 S-ARR-1 links to SL-5 on ae5 (172.16.8.0/31):

609 Run the same commands on S-ARR-2 to see similar output on that device. S-ARR-2 links to SL-4 on ae4 (172.16.9.0/31) and SL-5 on ae5 (172.16.10.0/31). SL-4 — Locally generated Type 6 routes, and Type 6 routes from other SL devices by way of S- ARR-1 and S-ARR-2:

610 You see similar Type 6 routes as remote routes from the other SL devices, which also serve receivers for the same groups in the same tenant VRF for the internal source on TOR-1 (multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2). Run these commands on SL-5 to see the Type 6 routes on that device. Match on prefix 6:192.168.0.5 to see the locally generated Type 6 routes for SL-5. Match on other device prefixes (such as 6*192.168.0.4 for SL-4) to see the remotely generated Type 6 routes.

10. Verify the peer devices for multihoming ESs use EVPN Type 7 routes to synchronize multicast join

states. Use the show route table __default_evpn__.evpn.0 command to see Type 7 route prefixes. For example, here we show Type 7 routes generated by peer SL devices SL-4 and SL-5 for the receiver behind TOR-4, with an internal source and IGMPv3 joins (see the parameters in Table 19 on page 551 for VRF-1). TOR-4 hashes join messages from its receivers to either SL-4 or SL-5. The devices each advertise Type 7 routes to their multihoming peers for the joins they receive, to synchronize the join status among them. These commands show:

• SL-5 locally generated Type 7 routes to advertise to SL-4

• SL-5 received Type 7 route advertisements from SL-4 for joins that TOR-4 hashed to SL-4

• OISM devices advertise Type 7 and Type 8 routes on the OISM revenue VLANs, not the SBD.

611 In this case, receivers joined groups on VLAN-2 (VNI 110002, hashed to SL-5) and VLAN-3 (VNI-110003, hashed to SL-4). Note that the ESI we configured for the SL-4 and SL-5 links to TOR-4 is 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05, which you see in the Type 7 route entry in the routing table. SL-5 — Locally generated Type 7 routes to advertise to SL-4: This output shows that SL-5 locally generated three Type 7 routes for joins on VLAN-2 (VNI

110002) for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123. .

SL-5 — Type 7 routes from SL-4: This output shows that SL-5 received three Type 7 route advertisements from SL-4 for joins on VLAN-3 (VNI 110003) for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123.

612 Run these commands on SL-4 to see Type 7 routes on that device. Match on prefix 7:192.168.0.5 to see the Type 7 routes from its multihoming peer, SL-5. Match on prefix 7:192.168.0.4 to see the locally generated Type 7 routes that SL-4 advertises to SL-5. You can use these commands to see Type 7 routes on the other multihoming peer SL device pairs.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks | 39

Optimized Intersubnet Multicast in EVPN Networks

Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks

613

Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM)

Implementation

614 In EVPN-VXLAN edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay fabric designs, the leaf devices forward traffic within tenant VLANs and route traffic between tenant VLANs. To support efficient multicast traffic flows in scaled ERB overlay fabrics, we support optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) with both internal and external multicast sources and receivers.

Regular OISM and Enhanced OISM Differences

We refer to our original OISM implementation as regular OISM. Regular OISM uses a symmetric bridge domains OISM model that requires you to configure all revenue VLANs (the tenant VLANs) in the network on all OISM leaf devices. See "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546 in this guide for an example of a regular OISM configuration. Due to the symmetric VLANs configuration requirement, we also call regular OISM the "bridge domains everywhere" (BDE) version of OISM. Enhanced OISM uses an asymmetric bridge domains OISM model in which you don't need to configure all revenue VLANs in the network on all OISM devices. On each leaf device that is not a multihoming peer with another leaf device, you can configure only the revenue VLANs that device hosts. However, the design still requires you to configure matching revenue VLANs on leaf devices that are multihoming peers. Enhanced OISM has some operational differences from regular OISM that support the asymmetric bridge domains model, but most of the configuration elements you need to set up are the same. Because you can configure the VLANs asymmetrically, we also call enhanced OISM the "bridge domains not everywhere" (BDNE) version of OISM. NOTE: Multihoming peer leaf devices are leaf devices that share an Ethernet segment (ES) for an attached multihomed client host, customer edge (CE) device, or top-of-rack (TOR) device. The enhanced OISM asymmetric bridge domain model enables OISM to scale well when your network has leaf devices that host a large number of diverse revenue VLANs. This example shows enhanced OISM configuration elements and verification steps tested in our scaled reference environment. We describe a few use cases here that highlight the main differences between regular OISM mode and enhanced OISM mode.

615 NOTE: Starting in Junos OS Release 24.4R1, we have qualified enhanced OISM at scale in environments that also include configurations for the following features:

• BGP unnumbered peering with an IPv6 underlay (also called BGP autodiscovery or

BGP auto-peering). See "BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center" on page 123.

• Non-revertive preference-based designated forwarder (DF) election.

See Preference-Based DF Election. We don't include configuration instructions for those features in the enhanced OISM use cases described here.

Enhanced OISM Use Cases Overview

IN THIS SECTION

Configuration Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode | 616 Operational Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode | 617 The enhanced OISM use cases included in this example don't include full device configurations. Instead, we focus on the sections of the configuration for the test environment differences and the enhanced OISM operational differences compared to the regular OISM example in "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546, such as:

• Using EBGP for the overlay peering in the EVPN core network (instead of IBGP, which the regular

OISM example configuration environment uses for the overlay peering).

• Configuring the same set of revenue VLANs only on multihoming peer leaf devices, and configuring

different sets of revenue VLANs on the other OISM leaf devices.

• Configuring the VRF instances and IRB interfaces on leaf devices that host different sets of revenue

VLANs.

616

• Enabling IPv6 multicast with MLDv1 any-source multicast (ASM) or MLDv2 source-specific multicast

(SSM), which is supported with regular OISM but wasn't included in the regular OISM configuration example.

• Verifying behaviors specific to enhanced OISM operation (see "Operational Differences in Enhanced

OISM Mode" on page 617). Refer to the regular OISM example in "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546 for complete details on configuring all of the required elements that are common for both regular OISM and enhanced OISM, such as:

• EVPN fabric interfaces

• Underlay and overlay peering (except here we cover EBGP for the overlay peering)

• EVPN MAC-VRF instances

• Multicast protocols—IGMP, IGMP snooping, MLD, MLD snooping, Protocol Independent Multicast

(PIM)

• The SBD, the revenue VLANs, and their corresponding IRB interfaces

• The tenant VRF instances

• OISM device roles—Server leaf, or border leaf as a PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) for exchanging

multicast traffic from and to external sources and external receivers

• Interfaces to and from an external PIM domain

Configuration Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode

You configure enhanced OISM in almost the same way that you configure regular OISM, using the same statements to set up the OISM environment. The only differences are:

• To enable enhanced mode instead of regular mode, configure the enhanced-oism option at the [edit

forwarding-options multicast-replication evpn irb] hierarchy level instead of configuring the oism option that enables regular OISM.

• Configure the virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances on the OISM leaf devices with the

revenue VLANs each device hosts. On each set of multihoming peer leaf devices, however, be sure to configure the same set of revenue VLANs, which should be a combination of all revenue VLANs used by the receivers behind those peer leaf devices.

• Configure an OSPF area for server leaf device connectivity on the SBD. With enhanced OISM, the

server leaf devices need Layer 3 connectivity to route source traffic onto the SBD for east-west traffic. As a result, in each tenant VRF, you configure an OSPF area on the server leaf devices with

617 the SBD IRB interface in active mode to form adjacencies on the SBD. You configure the other interfaces in OSPF passive mode. Note that on the OISM border leaf devices, for both regular and enhanced OISM, we require you to configure an OSPF area in each tenant VRF with the following interfaces:

• The SBD IRB interface, in OSPF active mode

• The PEG interface that provides access to external multicast sources and receivers, in OSPF

active mode

• The remaining interfaces in the VRF, including the revenue VLAN IRB interfaces, in OSPF passive

mode

Operational Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode

The main operational differences in enhanced OISM mode operation compared to regular OISM mode operation are:

• East-west traffic from internal sources—The ingress leaf devices forward east-west multicast source

traffic on the source VLAN only to their multihoming peer leaf devices with which they share at least one Ethernet segment. For all other OISM leaf devices, the ingress leaf devices route the source traffic only on the supplemental bridge domain (SBD), even if those other devices host the source VLAN. Then each leaf device locally routes the traffic from the SBD to the destination VLAN. Conversely, regular OISM sends multicast traffic from internal sources only on the source VLAN. Then each leaf device locally forwards the traffic on the source VLAN or routes the traffic to the destination VLAN. Only the border leaf devices route traffic on the SBD; the border leaf devices use the SBD to support multicast flows from external sources to receivers inside the EVPN fabric. NOTE: Enhanced OISM, like regular OISM, requires you to enable IGMP snooping or MLD snooping, so the ingress leaf device for a multicast flow sends the traffic only toward other OISM leaf devices with receivers that subscribed to (sent an IGMP or MLD join for) that flow.

• North-south traffic from internal sources toward external receivers—The ingress leaf devices

generate EVPN Type 10 Selective P-router Multicast Service Interface (S-PMSI) Auto-Discovery (A- D) routes for internal multicast (S,G) sources and groups. The OISM border leaf devices act as PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) devices to connect to external multicast sources and receivers. The PEG devices need to perform PIM source registration only for multicast sources inside the EVPN network, so they look for and only do PIM registration for the sources in advertised S-PMSI A-D routes.

618

• Enhanced OISM limitation for data packets with a time to live (TTL) of 1—Enhanced OISM routes

most multicast traffic on the SBD rather than on the source VLAN (even if the destination device hosts the source VLAN). The TTL value on multicast data packets routed to the SBD and then to the destination VLAN will have the packet TTL decremented more than once. As a result, packets with TTL=1 won't reach the receivers. This limitation applies to traffic for any multicast groups other than 224.0.0.0/24 (for IPv4 multicast) and ff02::/16 (for IPv6 multicast). For more details on the operational differences between regular OISM and enhanced OISM mode, see the following pages in the EVPN User Guide:

• Overview of Enhanced OISM

• How Enhanced OISM Works

For full details on all OISM concepts, components, configuration and operation, see Optimized Inter- Subnet Multicast in EVPN Networks. Configure and Verify the EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering

IN THIS SECTION

Configure EBGP Underlay Peering | 621

Configure EBGP Overlay Peering | 621

Verify Underlay and Overlay Peering | 622 In the EVPN-VXLAN fabric configuration for regular OISM in "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546, we configure the underlay peering with EBGP and the overlay peering with IBGP. However, in this example for enhanced OISM, the EVPN-VXLAN reference architecture test environment uses EBGP for both the underlay peering and the overlay peering. See Figure 95 on page 619. NOTE: We support both IPv4 and IPv6 multicast data traffic over the IPv4 underlay and overlay in this configuration.

619 Figure 95: Enhanced OISM EVPN-VXLAN Fabric—EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering All of the OISM server leaf devices (SL-n) and border leaf devices (BL-n) peer with the lean spine devices LS-1 and LS-2 in a full mesh spine and leaf configuration. See:

• Figure 95 on page 619 for the EVPN core interface names, device loopback addresses, and AS

numbers.

• Table 21 on page 620 for the corresponding subnet addresses for the underlay peering interfaces—

all interface addresses are .0 on the spine device side and .1 on the leaf device side.

620 Table 21: Enhanced OISM Interfaces for Spine and Leaf Peering

| Leaf Device | Spine Device | Interface | Underlay Subnet |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-1 192.168.0.1 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.1.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.3.0/31 |
| SL-2 192.168.0.2 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.2.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.4.0/31 |
| SL-3 192.168.0.3 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.5.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.6.0/31 |
| SL-4 192.168.0.4 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.7.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.9.0/31 |
| SL-5 192.168.0.5 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.8.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.10.0/31 |
| SL-6 192.168.0.6 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.15.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.16.0/31 |
| BL-1 192.168.5.1 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.11.0/31 |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.13.0/31 |
| BL-2 192.168.5.2 | LS-1 | ae1 | 172.16.12.0/31 |

621 Table 21: Enhanced OISM Interfaces for Spine and Leaf Peering (Continued)

Configure EBGP Underlay Peering

The underlay configuration is similar to the regular OISM EBGP underlay configuration example, but the enhanced OISM test environment has a few interface subnet differences. On each leaf device, configure EBGP for the underlay peering with neighbor devices LS-1 and LS-2. For example:

SL-1:

Substitute the corresponding interface IP addresses and AS numbers when you configure the underlay on the other OISM leaf devices.

Configure EBGP Overlay Peering

On each leaf device, configure the EBGP overlay peering with neighbor devices LS-1 and LS-2. For example:

SL-1:

| Leaf Device | Spine Device | Interface | Underlay Subnet |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | LS-2 | ae2 | 172.16.14.0/31 |

622 Substitute the corresponding device loopback addresses and AS numbers when you configure the overlay on the other OISM leaf devices.

Verify Underlay and Overlay Peering

To verify the EBGP underlay and overlay peering on SL-1 (lo0: 192.168.0.1, AS 4200000011), for example, look for the following in the output from the show bgp neighbor command:

• Underlay peering on:

• LS-1: Subnet 172.16.1.0/31

• LS-2: Subnet 172.16.3.0/31

• Overlay peering with:

• LS-1: lo0 192.168.2.1, AS 4200000021

• LS-2: lo0 192.168.2.2, AS 4200000022

623

624 Run the command on each OISM leaf devices and look for the corresponding interconnecting subnets and overlay device loopback addresses. Configure the EVPN MAC-VRF Instance and Enable Enhanced OISM You configure the same EVPN MAC-VRF instance named MACVRF-1 on all OISM server leaf and OISM border leaf devices, with only a few differences for parameters that depend on which device you're configuring. In later sections for different use case configurations, you add the VLANs, corresponding IRB interfaces, and VXLAN VNI mappings instance that are specific to that use case.

1. Configure the EVPN-VXLAN MAC-VRF instance named MACVRF-1 in the same way you configure

the MAC-VRF instance for regular OISM, including:

• VLAN-aware service type.

• Device loopback interface as the VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) source interface.

• Enable all VNIs in the instance to extend into the EVPN BGP domain.

• The same route target for the instance on all of the OISM leaf devices.

• A route distinguisher on each OISM leaf device in which the first part of the value matches the

device loopback IP address—see Figure 95 on page 619.

2. On each OISM leaf device, include the device's host-side access interfaces in the MACVRF-1

instance based on the topology in Figure 95 on page 619:

625

a. On SL-1, SL-3, and SL-6, include ae3.0:

b. On SL-2, SL-4, and S5, include ae3.0 and ae5.0:

c. On BL-1 and BL-2, include ae4.0:

NOTE: The border leaf devices in this example don't use ae3 on the access side, but as L3 PEG interfaces to route traffic to and from the external PIM domain (see Figure 95 on page 619).

3. Enable OISM in enhanced mode on all OISM server leaf devices and OISM border leaf devices.

OISM is not enabled in either regular mode or enhanced mode by default. You must explicitly enable OISM in regular mode or enhanced mode.

Configure Platform-specific Parameters

Configure the following platform-specific settings required in scaled EVPN-VXLAN environments on all OISM server leaf or OISM border leaf devices of the indicated device types. For details, see the similar configuration step 2 for regular OISM in "Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance" on page 559.

• On devices in the QFX5000 line of switches:

626

• On QFX5120 switches:

• On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches:

• On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches in the EVPN MAC-VRF instance MACVRF-1:

Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming

Peer) with IGMPv3—SSM

In use case #1, we configure the topology in Figure 96 on page 627 with a tenant VRF called VRF-1. This use case includes:

• An internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers using IGMPv3 with intra-VLAN and

inter-VLAN multicast flows.

• A single-homed receiver behind a server leaf device that is a multihoming peer of the ingress server

leaf device, so:

• The multihoming peer devices must have same set of revenue VLANs configured (even if both

devices don't host all of the VLANs).

• The ingress server leaf device forwards multicast traffic on the source VLAN (not the SBD) to the

multihoming peer device toward the receiver behind that peer device.

• The ingress server leaf device routes the multicast traffic on the SBD toward the receivers on all

of the other OISM leaf devices.

627 Figure 96: Enhanced OISM Use Case #1 Topology—IGMPv3 with Source Behind Multihoming Peers SL-1 and SL-2 Table 22 on page 628 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

628 Table 22: Use Case #1 Elements for Internal Multicast Flow with Multihoming Peer and IGMPv3 SBD for VRF-1 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2001, irb.2001, VNI 994002 Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-1, Source Host IP address: 10.0.1.12 IGMPv3—SSM multicast groups: 233.252.0.1 – 233.252.0.3 for intra-VLAN (L2), and 233.252.0.101 – 233.252.0.103 for inter-VLAN (L3)

Source VNI 110001 - VNI

110008

Receivers VNI 110001 - VNI

110008

VNI 110005- VNI

110008

VNI 110001 - VNI

110004

VNI 110001 - VNI

110004

VNI 110007 - VNI

110008

VNI 110003 - VNI

110006

| TOR-1— Multihomed to SL-11 and SL-21 | VLAN-1 - VLAN-8 | irb.1 - irb.8 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TOR-7—Single- homed to SL-21 | VLAN-1 - VLAN-8 | irb.1 - irb.8 |
| TOR-2—Single- homed to SL-3 | VLAN-5- VLAN-8 | irb.5- irb.8 |
| TOR-3— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-1 - VLAN-4 | irb.1 - irb.4 |
| TOR-4— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-1 - VLAN-4 | irb.1 - irb.4 |
| TOR-5— Multihomed to BL-13 and BL-23 | VLAN-7 - VLAN-8 | irb.7 - irb.8 |
| TOR-6—Single- homed to SL-6 | VLAN-3 - VLAN-6 | irb.3 - irb.6 |

629 Table 22: Use Case #1 Elements for Internal Multicast Flow with Multihoming Peer and IGMPv3

(Continued)

1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2. 2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5. 3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2. Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming

Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM

Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming Peer) with IGMPv3—SSM" on page 626.

1. On each OISM leaf device, in the MACVRF-1 instance, configure the hosted revenue VLANs and

their corresponding IRB interfaces and VNI mappings. SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 1 through 8:

630 SL-3—VLANs 5 through 8: SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 1 through 4:

631 SL-6—VLANs 3 through 6: BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 7 and 8:

2. On all OISM leaf devices, in the MACVRF-1 instance in this use case, configure the SBD VLAN,

corresponding IRB interface, and VNI mapping.

3. On each device, configure the hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces and the SBD IRB interface in this

use case as L3 gateways with IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack addresses. In this example, we configure the interfaces as gateways using a unique IRB IP address with a virtual gateway address (VGA). On SL-1 for irb.1 (corresponds to revenue VLAN 1), for example:

632 Use the same configuration on each leaf device to configure the gateway settings for the IRB interfaces for the hosted revenue VLANs and the SBD lRB interface, but substitute the following values to use unique addresses per IRB interface and per leaf device: NOTE: The SBD IRB interface VGA is common to all of the leaf devices for the VRF in this use case. Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-1 | Revenue VLANs—1 through 8 | 10.0.unit#.243/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.243/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| SL-2 | Revenue VLANs—1 through 8 | 10.0.unit#.244/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.244/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| SL-3 | Revenue VLANs—5 through 8 | 10.0.unit#.245/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |

633 Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.245/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| SL-4 | Revenue VLANs—1 through 4 | 10.0.unit#.246/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.246/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| SL-5 | Revenue VLANs—1 through 4 | 10.0.unit#.247/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.247/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| SL-6 | Revenue VLANs—3 through 6 | 10.0.unit#.248/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.248/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |
| BL-1 | Revenue VLANs—7 and 8 | 10.0.unit#.241/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.241/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |

634 Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)

4. This use case tests IGMPv3 SSM flows, so on each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP with the version 3

option on the IRB interfaces for the revenue VLANs the device hosts, and for the SBD. All OISM leaf devices—SBD: SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.1 through irb.8: SL-3—irb.5 through irb.8:

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| BL-2 | Revenue VLANs—7 and 8 | 10.0.unit#.242/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2001 | 10.20.1.242/24 10.20.1.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254 |

635 SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.1 through irb.4: SL-6—irb.3 through irb.6: BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.7 and irb.8:

5. On each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP snooping for IGMP version 3 in the MACVRF-1 instance for

the revenue VLANs the device hosts and the SBD. In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support IGMPv2 traffic with ASM reports only. We support IGMPv3 traffic with SSM reports only. As a result, when you enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv3 traffic, you must include the SSM-specific evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option. See Supported IGMP or MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with EVPN-VXLAN. All OISM leaf devices—SBD: SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 1 through 8:

636 SL-3—VLANs 5 through 8: SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 1 through 4: SL-6—VLANs 3 through 6: BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 7 and 8:

6. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include

this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-1, in the next step. For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:

• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.

• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.

637

SL-1:

SL-2:

SL-3:

SL-4:

SL-5:

SL-6:

BL-1:

638

BL-2:

7. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-1 on each of the OISM leaf devices.

VRF instance configuration with enhanced OISM is very similar to VRF instance configuration with regular OISM, except you include the revenue VLAN IRB interfaces corresponding only to the revenue VLANs the device hosts. You also include the following:

• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with the VRF instance.

• On the server leaf devices:

• Configure an OSPF area with the SBD IRB interface in OSPF active mode. Include the OSPF

priority 0 option with the SBD IRB interface so server leaf device SBD IRB interfaces never assume the designated router (DR) or backup designated router (BDR) role in the OSPF area. Configure OSPF passive mode for the remaining interfaces in the VRF instance so they can share routes internally without forming OSPF adjacencies.

• Configure PIM in the VRF instance in passive mode on the interfaces for all hosted revenue

VLANs and the SBD. Include the PIM accept-remote-source option so the SBD IRB interface accepts traffic arriving on that interface as the source interface.

• Add the following interfaces to the VRF instance:

• The SBD IRB interface for this VRF

• The hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces

• The loopback logical interface for this VRF (you configure the loopback logical interface in

Step 6 above)

• On the border leaf devices, which act as PEG devices to route multicast traffic from internal

sources to external receivers, and from external sources to internal receivers:

• Identify the border leaf device as a PEG device in the VRF instance using the pim-evpn-gateway

option at the [edit routing-instances name protocols evpn oism] hierarchy level.

• Configure an OSPF area for the VRF instance with an export policy to share OSPF learned

routes, and includes the following interfaces:

• The interface that connects to the external PIM domain, in OSPF active mode

639 NOTE: The border leaf devices in this example use ae3 as L3 PEG interfaces to route traffic to and from the external PIM domain (see Figure 95 on page 619). Each VRF instance uses a different logical unit on the ae3 interface for that purpose to configure multiple use cases in the same topology. In this use case, VRF-1 on the border leaf devices uses ae3.0 (logical unit = VRF instance number - 1).

• The SBD IRB interface for the VRF instance (irb.2001 in this case), in OSPF active mode

• The remaining interfaces in passive mode to share internal routes without forming OSPF

adjacencies

• Configure PIM in the VRF instance as follows:

• Statically configure the address for the PIM rendezvous point (RP) in the external PIM

domain. NOTE: In our test environment, we use an MX Series router as the PIM router and PIM RP in an external PIM domain. See "Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router" on page 575 for more on how to configure an MX Series router as a PIM router and RP with regular OISM; the steps are similar with enhanced OISM.

• Set distributed-dr mode on the IRB interfaces for the revenue VLANs.

• Enable PIM in regular mode on the interface that connects to the external PIM domain and

the loopback logical interface for the VRF instance.

• Enable PIM in regular mode on the SBD IRB interface, with the following options:

• Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) to improve convergence time with interface

issues to help avoid traffic loss.

• The stickydr option to avoid designated router switchover convergence delays during

reboot events.

• The accept-remote-source option to enable the SBD IRB interface to accept traffic arriving

on that interface as the source interface.

• (QFX Series switches) Set the PIM disable-packet-register option for the VRF instance. The

border leaf devices are the first-hop routers (FHRs) toward the external multicast PIM domain router and RP. However, for the PIM source registration process, QFX Series switches don't encapsulate (or decapsulate) multicast packets in PIM register messages and

640 don't generate the PIM register stop message. Without a PIM register stop message, the source registration process doesn't terminate properly. As a result, to avoid keeping the PIM registration process in an unpredictable state, we use this option on the border leaf devices that are QFX Series switches.

• Add the following interfaces to the VRF instance:

• The interface that connects to the external PIM domain—ae3.0

• The SBD IRB interface for this VRF

• The hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces

• The loopback logical interface for this VRF

Our enhanced OISM configuration also uses the following conventions in VRF instance configurations on all OISM leaf devices:

• Enable the graceful restart feature to help with OISM traffic convergence after failure events.

• Use a route target that's the same for this VRF instance on all of the leaf devices, in which the last

segment of the value matches the number in the VRF instance name.

• Use a route distinguisher (RD) for this VRF instance on each leaf device, in which the first part of

the RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the VRF instance number. All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6:

641 Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2: Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for the revenue VLANs the device hosts: SL-1 and SL-2—irb.1 through irb.8

642 SL-3—irb.5 through irb.8: SL-4 and SL-5—irb.1 through irb.4: SL-6—irb.3 through irb.6: BL-1 and BL-2—irb.7 and irb.8: Verify Use Case#1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer

Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM

Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #1, in which the internal source is behind SL-1 and SL-2. SL-2 is a multihoming peer of SL-1, and also has an internal receiver. SL-3 through SL-6, BL-1, and BL-2 also have internal receivers. See the topology in Figure 96 on page 627, and the configuration in "Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3— SSM" on page 629.

1. Run the show vlans command for the revenue VLANs on each leaf device to see the VXLAN tunnel

end points (VTEPs) between the leaf devices.

643 With the enhanced OISM asymmetric bridge domains model, each leaf device only needs to maintain VTEPs to the other leaf devices for the VLANs they host in common. For example, on SL-1, you see the following:

• For VLAN-1—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-1 (SL-2, SL-4, and SL-5)

• For VLAN-2—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-2 (SL-2, SL-4, and SL-5)

• For VLAN-3—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-3 (SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6)

• For VLAN-4—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-4 (SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6)

• For VLAN-5—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-5 (SL-2, SL-3, and SL-6)

• For VLAN-6—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-6 (SL-2, SL-3, and SL-6)

• For VLAN-7—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-7 (SL-2, SL-3, BL-1, and BL-2)

• For VLAN-8—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-8 (SL-2, SL-3, BL-1, and BL-2)

On the other devices, you see output only for the VLANs those devices host, with the corresponding VTEPs to the other leaf devices that host the same VLANs. SL-1 (output is similar on SL-2, which is a multihoming peer of SL-1):

644

645 SL-3 (output is similar on SL-6 for the revenue VLANs SL-6 hosts):

646 SL-5 (output is similar on SL-4, which is a multihoming peer of SL-5):

647

648

2. Run the show vlans command for the SBD (VLAN-2001) on each leaf device to see the SBD VTEPs

between the leaf devices. You should see VTEPs to each of the other leaf devices (seven VTEPs in this case). We show output only for SL-2; the results should be similar on all of the leaf devices.

SL-2:

3. Run the show interfaces irb.unit# terse command on each of the leaf devices to verify the revenue

VLAN IRB interfaces are up, and the SBD IRB interface is up. SL-2 (output is similar on SL-1):

649

650 SL-3 (output is similar on SL-6 for the revenue VLANs and IRB interfaces you configure on SL-6):

651 SL-5 (output is similar on SL-4):

652

4. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-1 command on the leaf devices to see the joined multicast

groups, source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. These values show enhanced OISM in action. For more details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works.

653 For example, we show output from this command for this use case on SL-2 as a source leaf device, and SL-3 and SL-5 as receiving leaf devices. Based on the test environment for this use case (see Table 22 on page 628), note the following in the output:

• Group—We use multicast groups 233.252.0.1 through 233.252.0.3 for intra-VLAN traffic (L2

forwarding), and 233.252.0.101 through 233.252.0.103 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing) traffic.

• Source—The IGMPv3 SSM multicast source is behind multihoming peer leaf devices SL-1 and

SL-2, with source address 10.0.1.12.

• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-1 with corresponding IRB

interface irb.1 (the upstream interface). The output shows that with enhanced OISM, either SL-1 or SL-2 send the source traffic toward the receivers from the source VLAN out onto the SBD (irb.2001 is the downstream neighbor) instead of on the source VLAN the way regular OISM operates. Also, with enhanced OISM, the leaf devices that host receivers, such as SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5 shown below, receive the traffic on the SBD (irb.2001 is the upstream neighbor), whether the traffic is intra-VLAN or inter-VLAN. Then those leaf devices route the traffic from the SBD to the destination VLAN using the corresponding IRB interfaces. The output is similar for the receivers behind the other leaf devices based on the VLANs they host. SL-2 in the source role (output is similar on SL-1):

654

655 SL-3 in the receiver role (SL-3 hosts VLANs 5 through 8):

656

657 SL-5 in the receiver role (SL-5 hosts VLANs 1 through 4; output is similar for multihoming peer device

SL-4):

658

659

5. Run the show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 extensive command on the leaf devices

to check for the expected routes in the multicast routing table. For example, we include the output for this use case on SL-2 as a source leaf device, and SL-3 and SL-5 as receiving leaf devices. Like in Step 4 of this verification, the output on SL-1 and SL-2 (source devices) should show that SL-1 and SL-2:

• Receive the traffic on source VLAN 1 (irb.1) as the upstream interface.

• Route the traffic out onto the SBD (irb.2001) toward the receivers for either intra-VLAN (L2) or

inter-vlan (L3) multicast flows. The output on SL-3 and SL-5 should show that SL-3 and SL-5:

• Receive the traffic on the SBD as the upstream interface.

660

• Route the traffic to the destination VLAN for the VLANs they host.

SL-2 in the source role (output is similar on SL-1):

661 SL-3 in the receiver role (SL-3 hosts VLANs 5 through 8):

662

663 SL-5 in the receiver role (SL-5 hosts VLANs 1 through 4; output is similar for multihoming peer device

SL-4):

664

665

6. Verify that multihoming peer devices receive source traffic on the source VLAN rather than on the

SBD. In use case #1, SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peer devices with the multicast source behind them. On SL-2, we add a single-homed receiver connected on interface ae5 to TOR-7. See Figure 95 on page 619. In this case, if SL-1 is the ingress leaf device and receives the source traffic, then with enhanced OISM, SL-1 sends the traffic to SL-2 on the source VLAN instead of on the SBD. SL-1 sends the source traffic on the SBD to the other leaf devices with interested receivers. For more details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works. Run these commands on SL-2 with the single-homed receiver behind TOR-7:

a. Run the show igmp snooping membership command for the EVPN instance MACVRF-1 to verify that

IGMP snooping is enabled on the VLANs that SL-2 hosts. You can also verify the multicast groups the receiver behind TOR-7 has joined. We show output for the first few VLANs. The output is similar for the remaining VLANs.

666

667

b. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-1 command to verify the upstream interface is the IRB

interface for the source VLAN, which is irb.1 in this case. The downstream neighbors include the SBD IRB interface and the other revenue VLAN IRB interfaces that have local receivers on the corresponding VLAN.

668

669

670

c. Run the show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 command to check for the

expected routes in the multicast forwarding table. The the source VLAN IRB interface, irb.1, is the upstream interface. The outgoing interface list (the downstream interface list) consists of the other IRB interfaces to which the device forwards and routes the multicast traffic.

671

d. Run the show multicast snooping route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance MACVRF-1 extensive command to

check for the expected entries in the multicast snooping forwarding table with the outgoing interface for the multicast traffic. (For brevity, in the output below we have trimmed similar results for some of the multicast groups.)

672

673

674

675 Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with

IGMPv2—ASM

In use case #2, we configure the topology in Figure 97 on page 676 with a tenant VRF called VRF-26. This use case includes:

• Intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN multicast flows using IGMPv2.

• A single-homed internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers.

• An external multicast receiver in an external PIM domain. As a result:

• The ingress leaf device advertises EVPN Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes for each internal multicast

source and group (S,G).

• The OISM border leaf PEG devices, BL-1 and BL-2, receive the EVPN Type 10 route. The BL

device that is the PIM designated router (DR) for the SBD, BL-2 in this case, sends a PIM register message for the (S,G) on its PEG interface to the PIM router in the external PIM domain.

• In response to the PIM register message, the PIM router sends a PIM Join message to either of

the multihomed attached OISM PEG devices, BL-1 or BL-2. In this case, BL-2 receives the PIM Join message. .

• The OISM PEG device that receives the PIM join, BL-2, sends the multicast traffic on its PEG

interface toward the external receiver behind the PIM router.

676 NOTE: The test environment uses an MX Series router as the PIM router and PIM RP in an external PIM domain. See "Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router" on page 575 for an example of how to configure an MX Series router as a PIM router and RP with regular OISM; the steps are similar with enhanced OISM. Figure 97: Enhanced OISM Use Case #2 Topology—IGMPv2 with Source Behind SL-3 and External

Receiver in External PIM Domain

Table 24 on page 677 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

677 Table 24: Use Case#2 Elements for Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2 SBD for VRF-26 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2026, irb.2026, VNI 994027 Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-201, Source Host IP address: 10.0.201.12 IGMPv2—ASM multicast groups: 233.252.0.71 – 233.252.0.73 for intra-VLAN (L2), and 233.252.0.171 – 233.252.0.173 for inter-VLAN (L3)

Source VNI 110201 - VNI

110208

Receivers VNI 110203- VNI

110206

VNI 110205 - VNI

110208

VNI 110205 - VNI

110208

VNI 110207 - VNI

110208

VNI 110201 - VNI

110204 n/a

| TOR-2—Single- homed to SL-3 | VLAN-201 - VLAN-208 | irb.201 - irb.208 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TOR-1— Multihomed to SL-11 and SL-21 | VLAN-203- VLAN-206 | irb.203- irb.206 |
| TOR-3— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-205 - VLAN-208 | irb.205 - irb.208 |
| TOR-4— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-205 - VLAN-208 | irb.205 - irb.208 |
| TOR-5— Multihomed to BL-13 and BL-23 | VLAN-207 - VLAN-208 | irb.207 - irb.208 |
| TOR-6—Single- homed to SL-6 | VLAN-201 - VLAN-204 | irb.201 - irb.204 |
| EXT RCVR in External PIM domain | VLAN-3126 | n/a |

678 Table 24: Use Case#2 Elements for Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2

(Continued)

1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2. 2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5. 3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2. Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page 675. The main differences in this use case from use case #1 are that here:

• We use enhanced OISM for multicast flows with IGMPv2 (ASM) from a single-homed source behind

SL-3.

• SL-3 hosts revenue VLANs VLAN-201 through VLAN-208, and the other leaf devices host different

subsets of those revenue VLANs.

• We use VRF-26, and configure the SBD for this VRF as VLAN-2026.

1. On each OISM leaf device, configure the revenue VLANs the device hosts, their corresponding IRB

interfaces, and VNI mappings in the same way as "Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM" on page 629 for steps 1 through 3, but use the values in Table 24 on page 677, and Table 25 on page 679 below for the IRB interface addresses and virtual gateway addresses.

679 Table 25: Use Case #2 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-1 | Revenue VLANs—201 through 208 | 10.0.unit#.243/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.243/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| SL-2 | Revenue VLANs—201 through 208 | 10.0.unit#.244/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.244/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| SL-3 | Revenue VLANs—205 through 208 | 10.0.unit#.245/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.245/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| SL-4 | Revenue VLANs—201 through 204 | 10.0.unit#.246/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.246/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |

680 Table 25: Use Case #2 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-5 | Revenue VLANs—201 through 204 | 10.0.unit#.247/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.247/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| SL-6 | Revenue VLANs—203 through 206 | 10.0.unit#.248/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.248/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| BL-1 | Revenue VLANs—207 and 208 | 10.0.unit#.241/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.241/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |
| BL-2 | Revenue VLANs—207 and 208 | 10.0.unit#.242/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2026 | 10.20.26.242/24 10.20.26.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254 |

681

2. This use case tests IGMPv2 ASM flows. IGMPv2 is enabled by default on all interfaces on which you

configure PIM, so you don't need to explicitly enable IGMP in this case. Each OISM leaf device will use IGMPv2 on the IRB interfaces for which you did not explicitly configure IGMPv3 with the [edit protocols igmp interface interface-name version 3 statement.

3. On each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv2 in the MACVRF-1 instance for the

revenue VLANs the device hosts, and the SBD. For simplicity, you can enable IGMP snooping for all VLANs in the MAC-VRF instance with the following command: NOTE: With the vlan all option above, if you need IGMP snooping with IGMPv3 for some of the VLANs, you can explicitly enable IGMP snooping with the evpn-ssm-reportsonly option only for those VLANs, as we do in use case #1. The remaining VLANs will use IGMP snooping with IGMPv2. Alternatively, on each device you can enable IGMP snooping explicitly for the SBD and the VLANs that device hosts. All OISM leaf devices: SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 203 through 206: SL-3—VLANs 201 through 208:

682 SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 205 through 208: SL-6—VLANs 201 through 204: BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 207 and 208:

4. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include

this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-26, in the next step. For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:

• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.

• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.

SL-1:

SL-2:

683

SL-3:

SL-4:

SL-5:

SL-6:

BL-1:

BL-2:

5. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-26 on each of the OISM leaf devices.

Include the same elements for the server leaf and border leaf devices in the VRF configuration as we describe in use case #1, Step 7, with the following differences for this use case:

• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with this VRF instance, which is irb.26.

• On the border leaf devices, the L3 PEG interface for VRF-26 is ae3.25 (logical unit = VRF instance

number - 1).

684

• On each device, include the loopback logical interface for this VRF instance that you configure in

Step 4 above.

• Use the same route target for this VRF instance on all of the OISM leaf devices—target:100:26.

• Configure an RD following the same convention as in use case #1, in which the first part of the

RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the VRF instance number—device-loopback-unit-0-address:26. All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6: Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2:

685 Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for the revenue VLANs the device hosts: SL-1 and SL-2:

SL-3:

SL-4 and SL-5:

686

SL-6:

BL-1 and BL-2: Verify Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #2 where we have a single-homed internal source behind SL-3 sending IGMPv2 multicast traffic. SL-2 is a multihoming peer of SL-1, and also connects to an internal receiver on TOR-7. SL-3 through SL-6, BL-1, and BL-2 connect to internal receivers. An external receiver also subscribes to the source traffic through an external PIM router and RP by way of OISM PEG devices BL-1 and BL-2. See the topology in Figure 97 on page 676, and the configuration in "Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page 678. In this case, we focus on how to verify enhanced OISM operation with an external receiver. SL-6, as the ingress OISM leaf device, advertises EVPN Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes for the multicast source and groups (S,G). BL-1 and BL-2 receive the EVPN Type 10 route on the SBD. In this example, BL-2 is the PIM DR for the SBD, so BL-2 sends a PIM register message for the (S,G) on its PEG interface to the PIM router and RP. The PIM router sends a PIM Join back to either of the multihomed attached OISM PEG devices, in this case BL-2. BL-2 sends multicast traffic from that (S,G) on its PEG interface toward the external receiver. See "Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page 675 for all of the parameters in this use case.

687

1. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-26 command on SL-3, the ingress leaf device, to see the

joined multicast groups, source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. For more details on how enhanced OISM north-south traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works. Note the following in the output:

• Group—Multicast groups 233.252.0.71 through 233.252.0.73 for intra-VLAN traffic (L2

forwarding), and 233.252.0.171 through 233.252.0.173 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing) traffic.

• Source—The multicast source behind SL-3 has source address 10.0.201.12.

• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-201. SL-3 receives the

traffic on irb.201 (the upstream interface). With enhanced OISM, SL-3 routes the multicast traffic to the other leaf devices only on the SBD, and the receiving leaf devices all receive the traffic on the SBD. As a result, the upstream interface would be irb.2026, the SBD IRB interface, for the receiving devices. Between the multihoming peer receiver devices BL-1 and BL-2, BL-2 received the PIM Join in this case, so BL-2 routes the traffic from the SBD toward the external receiver on its PEG interface. SL-3 in the source role for the first multicast group (output is similar for the other groups):

2. Use the show evpn oism spmsi-ad command to see the source and group (S,G) information in the EVPN

Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes that SL-3 advertises and BL-2 receives.

688 For example, we show the output of this command for the source address in this use case (10.0.201.12) and the first intra-VLAN multicast group (233.252.0.71). The command and output are similar for the other multicast groups in this use case.

SL-3:

BL-2:

3. Run the show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 10* extensive command to see the details about the

EVPN Type 10 routes advertised by SL-3, the device that hosts the multicast source. For example, we show the EVPN Type 10 route table entries on SL-3 (the source device), BL-2 (a receiver and PEG device), and SL-2 (another receiver). We include results for the first multicast group in this use case, 233.252.0.71. The commands and output are similar for the other leaf devices and multicast groups in this use case. SL-3 in the source device role:

689 SL-2 in the receiving device role:

690

691 BL-2 in the receiving device role and as a PEG device:

692

693 Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM In use case #3, we configure the topology in Figure 98 on page 694 with a tenant VRF called VRF-56. This use case includes:

• An internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers.

• Inter-VLAN IPv6 multicast flows using MLDv2 (none of the OISM leaf devices host the source VLAN,

so all OISM traffic will be inter-VLAN traffic) Note that we support both IPv4 and IPv6 multicast data traffic with an IPv4 EVPN core. We use the same underlay and overlay peering for MLD multicast traffic as we use for IGMP in use case #1 and use case #2.

694 Figure 98: Enhanced OISM Use Case #3 Topology—MLDv2 IPv6 Multicast with Internal Source Behind

SL-6 and Internal Receivers

Table 26 on page 695 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

695 Table 26: Use Case #3 Elements for Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2 SBD for VRF-56 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2056, irb.2056, VNI 994057 Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-141, Source Host IPv6 address: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c MLDv2—SSM multicast groups for inter-VLAN traffic only: ff0e::db8:0:1 – ff0e::db8:0:3 for inter-VLAN (L3)

Source VNI 110141 - VNI

110148

Receivers VNI 110142 - VNI

110144

VNI 110142 - VNI

110144

VNI 110143- VNI

110146

VNI 110145 - VNI

110148

VNI 110145 - VNI

110148

VNI 110147 - VNI

110148

| TOR-6—Single- homed to SL-6 | VLAN-141 - VLAN-148 | irb.141 - irb.148 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| TOR-1— Multihomed to SL-11 and SL-21 | VLAN-142 - VLAN-144 | irb.142 - irb.144 |
| TOR-7—Single- homed to SL-21 | VLAN-142 - VLAN-144 | irb.142 - irb.144 |
| TOR-2—Single- homed to SL-3 | VLAN-143- VLAN-146 | irb.143- irb.146 |
| TOR-3— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-145 - VLAN-148 | irb.145 - irb.148 |
| TOR-4— Multihomed to SL-42 and SL-52 | VLAN-145 - VLAN-148 | irb.145 - irb.148 |
| TOR-5— Multihomed to BL-13 and BL-23 | VLAN-147 - VLAN-148 | irb.147 - irb.148 |

696 Table 26: Use Case #3 Elements for Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2 (Continued) 1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2. 2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5. 3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2. Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM" on page 693. The main differences in this use case from use case #1 are that here:

• We use enhanced OISM for IPv6 multicast flows with MLDv2 from a single-homed source behind

SL-6.

• SL-6 hosts revenue VLANs VLAN-141 through VLAN-148, and the other leaf devices host different

subsets of revenue VLANs VLAN-142 through VLAN-148.

• We configure a VRF named VRF-56, and configure the SBD for this VRF using VLAN-2056.

1. On each OISM leaf device, configure the revenue VLANs the device hosts, their corresponding IRB

interfaces, and VNI mappings in the same way as "Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM" on page 629 for steps 1 through 3, but use the values in Table 26 on page 695, and refer to Table 27 on page 697 below for the IRB interface addresses and virtual gateway addresses.

697 Table 27: Use Case #3 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-1 | Revenue VLANs—142 through 144 | 10.0.unit#.243/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.243/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:243/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| SL-2 | Revenue VLANs—142 through 144 | 10.0.unit#.244/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.244/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:244/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| SL-3 | Revenue VLANs—143 through 146 | 10.0.unit#.245/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.245/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:245/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| SL-4 | Revenue VLANs—145 through 148 | 10.0.unit#.246/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.246/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:246/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |

698 Table 27: Use Case #3 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)

| Leaf Device | IRB Interface Unit# | IRB IPv4 Address IPv4 VGA | IRB IPv6 Address IPv6 VGA |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| SL-5 | Revenue VLANs—145 through 148 | 10.0.unit#.247/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.247/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:247/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| SL-6 | Revenue VLANs—141 through 148 | 10.0.unit#.248/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.248/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:248/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| BL-1 | Revenue VLANs—147 and 148 | 10.0.unit#.241/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.241/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:241/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |
| BL-2 | Revenue VLANs—147 and 148 | 10.0.unit#.242/24 10.0.unit#.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:hex- unit#:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254 |
|  | SBD—2056 | 10.20.56.242/24 10.20.56.254 | 2001:db8::10:0:808:242/112 2001:db8::10:0:808:254 |

699

2. This use case tests MLDv2 SSM flows, so enable MLD version 2 on the IRB interfaces for the

revenue VLANs and the SBD in this use case. All OISM leaf devices—SBD: SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.142 through irb.144: SL-3—irb.143 through irb.146: SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.145 through irb.148: SL-6—irb.141 through irb.148:

700 BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.147 and irb.148:

3. IGMP snooping is enabled by default on the OISM leaf devices. So on each OISM leaf device, disable

IGMP snooping and enable MLD snooping for MLDv2 in the MACVRF-1 instance for the SBD and the revenue VLANs the device hosts. In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support MLDv1 traffic with ASM reports only. We support MLDv2 traffic with SSM reports only. As a result, when you enable MLD snooping for MLDv2 traffic, you must include the SSM-specific evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option. See Supported IGMP or MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with EVPN-VXLAN. All OISM leaf devices—SBD: SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 142 through 144: SL-3—VLANs 143 through 146:

701 SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 145 through 148: SL-6—VLANs 141 through 148: BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 147 and 148:

702 NOTE: MLDv1 is the default version when you enable MLD and MLD snooping. If you have a use case with MLDv1—ASM flows, you configure MLD without the version option, and configure MLD snooping without the evpn-ssm-reports-only option, as follows: set protocols mld interface irb.unit# set routing-instances macvrf-instance protocols mld-snooping vlan vlan-name

4. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include

this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-56, in the next step. For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:

• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.

• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.

SL-1:

SL-2:

SL-3:

SL-4:

703

SL-5:

SL-6:

BL-1:

BL-2:

5. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-56 on each of the OISM leaf devices.

Include the same elements for the server leaf and border leaf devices in the VRF configuration as we describe in use case #1, Step 7, with the following differences for this use case:

• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with this VRF instance, which is irb.56.

• For IPv6 multicast traffic, also configure an OSPF version 3 (OSPFv3) area on the IRB interface for

the SBD (in OSPF active mode) and the IRB interfaces for the hosted VLANs (in passive mode).

• On the border leaf devices, the L3 PEG interface for VRF-56 is ae3.55 (logical unit = VRF instance

number - 1).

• On each device, include the loopback logical interface for this VRF instance that you configure in

Step 4 above.

• Use the same route target for this VRF instance on all of the OISM leaf devices—target:100:56.

• Configure an RD following the same convention as in use case #1, in which the first part of the

RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the VRF instance number—device-loopback-unit-0-address:56.

704 All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6: Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2:

705 Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for the revenue VLANs the device hosts: SL-1 and SL-2—irb.142 through irb.144: SL-3—irb.143 through irb.146: SL-4 and SL-5—irb.145 through irb.148: SL-6—irb.141 through irb.148:

706 BL-1 and BL-2—irb.147 and irb.148: Verify Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #3, in which the internal source is behind SL-6 sending IPv6 multicast flows for inter-VLAN multicast traffic with MLDv2—SSM. SL-1 through SL-5, BL-1, and BL-2 are internal receivers. See the topology in Figure 98 on page 694, and the configuration in "Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM" on page 696. Verification for this use case is similar to the verification in use case #1 but with an IPv6 source address and IPv6 multicast traffic. We include verification commands here on SL-6 as the OISM leaf device sending the source traffic, and on SL-1 and SL-2 as the OISM leaf devices receiving the traffic. On the other receiving devices, based on the revenue VLANs they host, you'll see output similar to what we include here for SL-1 and SL-2.

1. Run the show vlans command for the revenue VLANs and the SBD to see the VTEPs between the leaf

devices. For example, on SL-6, you see the following:

• For VLAN-141—No VTEPS. SL-6 doesn't need any VTEPs to other OISM leaf devices for the

source VLAN because:

• This use case is for inter-VLAN traffic only, so no other leaf devices host the source VLAN.

• SL-6 has no multihoming peer leaf devices , so SL-6 doesn't need to send any multicast flows

to a multihoming peer on the source VLAN.

• For VLAN-142—2 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-142 (SL-1 and SL-2)

• For VLAN-143—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-143 (SL-1, SL-2, and SL-3)

• For VLAN-144—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-144 (SL-1, SL-2, and SL-3)

• For VLAN-145—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-145 (SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5)

• For VLAN-146—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-146 (SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5)

707

• For VLAN-147—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-147 (SL-4, SL-5, BL-1, and BL-2)

• For VLAN-148—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-148 (SL-4, SL-5, BL-1, and BL-2)

SL-6:

708 SL-2 (SL-1 and SL-2 host only VLAN-142, VLAN-143, and VLAN-144):

709

2. Run the show vlans command for the SBD (VLAN-2056) on each leaf device to see the SBD VTEPs

between the leaf devices. You should see VTEPs to each of the other leaf devices (seven VTEPs in this case).

710

SL-6:

SL-2 (output is similar for SL-1):

3. Run the show interfaces irb.unit# terse command on each of the leaf devices to verify the revenue

VLAN IRB interfaces are up, and the SBD IRB interface is up. Table 27 on page 697 lists the addresses of the IRB interfaces in this use case. SL-6 (output is similar on other OISM leaf devices for the SBD and the revenue VLANs they host):

711

4. Run the show ospf3 neighbor command for the VRF instance in this use case, VRF-56, on each leaf

device. The output shows the OSPFv3 neighbors, where the neighbor ID is the neighbor device's logical loopback address for the VRF (lo0.56). The Neighbor-address is the automatically-assigned IPv6 link local address.

SL-6:

712

SL-1:

SL-2:

713

5. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-56 command on the leaf devices to see the joined IPv6

multicast groups, IPv6 source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. For more details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works. We show output from this command for IPv6 multicast traffic on SL-6 as the source leaf device, and SL-2 as a receiving leaf device. Output is similar on the other receiving leaf devices for the VLANs they host. Note the following in the output:

• Group—We use multicast groups ff0e::db8:0:1 through ff0e::db8:0:3 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing)

traffic. We truncate the output after the first two multicast groups; the output for the last group is similar.

• Source—The MLDv2 SSM multicast source is behind SL-6 with source address

2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c.

• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-141, but in this case

(unlike use case #1), because SL-6 has no multihoming peer leaf devices, the upstream interface is the SBD IRB interface, irb.2056. With enhanced OISM, SL-6 routes all multicast traffic to the other leaf devices on the SBD, and the receiving leaf devices receive the traffic on the SBD. Then the receiving leaf devices route the traffic from the SBD to the destination VLANs. SL-6 in the source role:

714 SL-1 in the receiver role (SL-1 and SL-2 share an ESI and host VLANs 142 through 144; SL-2 is the designated forwarder [DF] for the ESI):

715

716 SL-2 in the receiver role (SL-1 and SL-2 share an ESI and host VLANs 142 through 144; SL-2 is the designated forwarder [DF] for the ESI):

717

6. On each device, use the show mld snooping membership vlan vlan-name virtual-switch MACVRF-1 command to

verify the multicast (S,G) source and group information learned with MLD snooping on the device for the hosted VLANs. For example, on SL-2 as a receiving leaf device:

718

719

7. Run the show multicast snooping route source-prefix 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c instance VRF-56 extensive command

on the leaf devices to check for the expected routes in the multicast snooping route table with the outgoing interface for the IPv6 multicast (S,G) traffic in this use case. We include the output on SL-1 and SL-2 as receiving leaf devices. The output here shows that SL-1 and SL-2 receive the traffic on the SBD for the subscribed (S,G) entries and route the traffic toward the receivers on the destination VLANs they host. SL-1 (SL-1 and SL-2 host VLANs 142 through 144):

720

721 SL-2 (SL-1 and SL-2 host VLANs 142 through 144, and SL-2 has an additional single-homed receiver on interface ae5 to TOR-7):

722

723

Configure VMTO

This section describes how to configure virtual machine traffic optimization (VMTO). For overview information about VMTO, see Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. To enable VMTO for EVPN:

• Enable VMTO on the spine:

To verify that VMTO is working:

• Display the routing table.

724

VMTO — Release History

Table 28 on page 724 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

Table 28: VMTO Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization

DHCP Relay Design and Implementation

IN THIS SECTION

Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Same Leaf Device | 726 Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Different Leaf Devices | 726 Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs | 727

725

DHCP Relay — Release History | 729

For an overview of the DHCP Relay implementation in this design, see the DHCP Relay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9. DHCP Relay was validated on centrally-routed bridging overlays (see "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172) in use cases like those described below. DHCP Relay has also been validated with edge-routed bridging overlays (see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236) starting in Junos OS Releases 18.4R2-S5 and 19.1R1. You can refer to Configure a DHCP Relay in EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture for a network configuration example of a DHCP Relay use case with an edge-routed bridging overlay. Figure 99 on page 725 provides a sample DHCP server and client placement in this design. Figure 99: DHCP Server and Client Setup This section covers the following DHCP Relay scenarios:

726 Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and

Connected to Same Leaf Device

Figure 100 on page 726 shows how DHCP traffic might traverse the overlay network when the DHCP client and server connect to access interfaces on the same leaf device and are in the same VLAN. Figure 100: DHCP Relay—Same Leaf Device and Same VLAN DHCP traffic is handled like any other intra-VLAN traffic in this scenario. It could also have been passed in VNI_10000 on leaf device 10 or 11. No additional configuration of the leaf or spine devices is required to support this traffic exchange. Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and

Connected to Different Leaf Devices

Figure 101 on page 727 shows how DHCP traffic might be forwarded when the DHCP client and server connect to access interfaces on non-connected leaf devices that have interfaces in the same VLAN.

727 Figure 101: DHCP Relay—Different Leaf Device and Same VLAN In this scenario, the DHCP traffic remains in VNI_10000 and is passed over the topology using a VXLAN tunnel. No additional configuration of the leaf or spine devices is required to support this traffic exchange. Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs Figure 102 on page 728 shows how DHCP traffic is forwarded when the DHCP client and server connect to access interfaces in different VLANs.

728

Figure 102: DHCP Relay—Different VLANs

When the DHCP client and server are in different VNI, DHCP traffic is forwarded to a spine device. The DHCP traffic is forwarded between VNIs via the IRB interfaces on the spine device and then passed to the destination DHCP client or server. The IRB interfaces on the spine devices must be configured to support DHCP Relay. To prepare the network to support DHCP relay when the DHCP client and server are in different

VLANs:

1. Ensure the centrally-routed bridging overlay is configured. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay

Design and Implementation" on page 172.

2. Enable DHCP relay in a routing instance with the forward only option. The forward only option

ensures that DHCP packets are forwarded on the switch but that no DHCP server client bindings are created.

Spine Device:

3. Create and activate the DHCP relay server group. The DHCP relay server group include one or more

DHCP servers—individually identified by IP address—and a user-defined name for the servers.

729 In this reference design, one DHCP server—10.1.0.211—is assigned into a DHCP server group named DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1.

Spine Device:

4. Associate the server group with the IRB interfaces on the spine devices.

In this topology, irb.100 and irb.200 relay DHCP traffic between VNI_10000 and VNI_20000.

Spine Devices:

5. Confirm that the DHCP hosts received an IP address by reviewing the ARP table on the spine device.

DHCP Relay — Release History

Table 29 on page 730 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

730

Table 29: DHCP Relay Release History

19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train and serve as spine devices also support all features documented in this section. We have not validated DHCP Relay between VLANs in edge-routed bridging overlays for this reference design. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 17.3R3-S1 All spine devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section. We have not validated DHCP Relay between VLANs in edge-routed bridging overlays for this reference design.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

Configuring DHCP and BOOTP Relay

Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the

Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

IN THIS SECTION

Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 731 Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 733

731 Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging

Overlay

Proxy ARP and ARP suppression are enabled by default on all QFX Series switches that can act as leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay. (For a list of these switches, see Table 2 on page 52.) As a result, there is no configuration needed to enable these features. NOTE: By default, the Junos OS enables proxy ARP and ARP suppression, and proxy NDP and NDP suppression. The Junos OS includes the no-arp-suppression statement to turn off suppressing ARP and NDP packets, but starting in Junos OS Release 19.1R1, that statement is hidden in the Junos CLI. We usually recommend using the default settings. To verify proxy ARP is working on supported devices and ARP suppression prevents other leaf devices from seeing the ARP requests, perform the following:

1. Select a remote end system entry to verify that proxy ARP is enabled on a supported leaf device. In

this example, Leaf 10 is a QFX10002 switch.

2. Verify that the entry was learned from a remote leaf device. In this case, the ARP entry was learned

from Leaf 4 and 5.

732

3. Send an ARP Request and verify that the ARP reply is generated.

4. Verify that ARP is suppressed in the remote leaf device. Note: There is no ARP request connecting

Leaf 4 to any other leaf in the segment.

733 Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay —

Release History

Table 30 on page 733 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design. Table 30: Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression in an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Release History 19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section. 19.1R1 The no-arp-suppression statement is hidden in the CLI starting in Junos OS Release 19.1R1, but you can configure it in some use cases where we require you to turn off ARP suppression. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

EVPN Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression, and Proxy NDP and NDP Suppression

734 Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on

Ethernet-Connected End Systems

IN THIS SECTION

Configuring Storm Control | 734

Verifying Storm Control | 735

Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering | 735

Verifying MAC Filtering | 738

Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring | 738

Verifying Port Mirroring | 739

Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History | 739

This section shows how to configure the following Layer 2 port security features. For overview information about these features, see "Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems" on page 45 in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

Configuring Storm Control

In this sample configuration, storm control rate limits BUM traffic on server-facing aggregated Ethernet interfaces. If the amount of BUM traffic exceeds 6% of the available bandwidth on the interface, storm control drops it to prevent broadcast storms. To enable storm control:

1. Create a storm control profile and specify the percentage of bandwidth available to BUM traffic.

735

2. Apply the storm control profile to an ingress Layer 2 interface. After you apply the profile to an

interface, the interface resides in the default switch interface.

Verifying Storm Control

To verify storm control activity, filter system log messages related to storm control:

Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering

To configure MAC filtering, you create firewall filters in which you specify one or more of the supported match conditions. See MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring Support in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment for a list of match conditions supported on QFX5110 switches and QFX10000 switches. You then apply the firewall filter to a Layer 2 interface. To configure MAC filtering:

1. Create a firewall filter for an ingress interface.

736

2. Apply the firewall filter to the ingress of an access interface / Layer 2 interface.

737

3. Create a firewall filter for an egress interface.

4. Apply the firewall filter to the egress interface.

738

Verifying MAC Filtering

1. Verify MAC filtering on the ingress interface.

2. Verify MAC filtering on the egress interface.

Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring

This section shows how to mirror ingress traffic on an underlay interface to another physical port. The source and destination ports for mirrored traffic are on the same leaf or same spine.

1. Configure an analyzer to mirror ingress traffic on interface ae1.0.

739

2. Configure the destination interface for the mirrored packets.

3. Configure the interface that connects to another switch (the uplink interface) to trunk mode and

associate it with the appropriate VLAN.

Verifying Port Mirroring

• To verify port mirroring:

Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History

Table 31 on page 740 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this reference design.

740

Table 31: Layer 2 Port Security Release History

19.1R2 • QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release train support MAC filtering, storm control, and port mirroring and analyzing.

• QFX10002-60C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same

release train support MAC filtering. These switches do not support storm control, and port mirroring and analyzing. 18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release train support all features documented in this section. 18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.

RELATED DOCUMENTATION

MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring Support in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment

Remote Port Mirroring for EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics
