Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Fundamentals Configuration Guide,
Release 10.5(x)
First Published: 2024-07-27
Last Modified: 2025-04-23
Americas Headquarters
Cisco Systems, Inc.
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose, CA 95134-1706
USA
http://www.cisco.com
Tel: 408 526-4000
800 553-NETS (6387)
Fax: 408 527-0883

THE SPECIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION REGARDING THE PRODUCTS REFERENCED IN THIS DOCUMENTATION ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE.
EXCEPT AS MAY OTHERWISE BE AGREED BY CISCO IN WRITING, ALL STATEMENTS, INFORMATION, AND RECOMMENDATIONS IN THIS DOCUMENTATION ARE
PRESENTED WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.
The Cisco End User License Agreement and any supplemental license terms govern your use of any Cisco software, including this product documentation, and are located at:
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/legal/cloud-and-software/software-terms.html. Cisco product warranty information is available at https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/
warranty-listing.html. US Federal Communications Commission Notices are found here https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/us-fcc-notice.html.
IN NO EVENT SHALL CISCO OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS OR LOSS OR DAMAGE TO DATA ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THIS MANUAL, EVEN IF CISCO OR ITS SUPPLIERS
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Any products and features described herein as in development or available at a future date remain in varying stages of development and will be offered on a when-and if-available basis. Any
such product or feature roadmaps are subject to change at the sole discretion of Cisco and Cisco will have no liability for delay in the delivery or failure to deliver any products or feature
roadmap items that may be set forth in this document.
Any Internet Protocol (IP) addresses and phone numbers used in this document are not intended to be actual addresses and phone numbers. Any examples, command display output, network
topologydiagrams,andotherfiguresincludedinthedocumentareshownforillustrativepurposesonly.AnyuseofactualIPaddressesorphonenumbersinillustrativecontentisunintentional
and coincidental.
The documentation set for this product strives to use bias-free language. For the purposes of this documentation set, bias-free is defined as language that does not imply discrimination based
on age, disability, gender, racial identity, ethnic identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, and intersectionality. Exceptions may be present in the documentation due to language
that is hardcoded in the user interfaces of the product software, language used based on RFP documentation, or language that is used by a referenced third-party product.
Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL:
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/legal/trademarks.html. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a
partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1721R)
© 2024–2025 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.

C O N T E N T S
Trademarks ?
P R E F A C E Preface xiii
Audience xiii
Document Conventions xiii
Related Documentation for Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches xiv
Documentation Feedback xiv
Communications, services, and additional information xiv
Cisco Bug Search Tool xv
Documentation feedback xv
C H A P T E R 1 New and Changed Information 1
New and Changed Information 1
C H A P T E R 2 Overview 3
Licensing Requirements 3
Supported Platforms 3
Software Image 3
Software Compatibility 4
Spine/Leaf Topology 4
Modular Software Design 4
Serviceability 4
Switched Port Analyzer 4
Ethanalyzer 5
Smart Call Home 5
Online Diagnostics 5
iii

Contents
Embedded Event Manager 5
Manageability 5
Simple Network Management Protocol 5
Configuration Verification and Rollback 5
Role-Based Access Control 6
Cisco NX-OS Device Configuration Methods 6
Programmability 6
Python API 6
Tcl 6
Cisco NX-API 6
Bash Shell 7
Broadcom Shell 7
Traffic Routing, Forwarding, and Management 7
Ethernet Switching 7
IP Routing 8
IP Services 8
IP Multicast 8
Quality of Service 9
Network Security Features 9
Supported Standards 10
C H A P T E R 3 Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility 17
About the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility 17
Prerequisites for the Setup Utility 18
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device 19
Additional References for the Setup Utility 24
Related Documents for the Setup Utility 24
C H A P T E R 4 Using PowerOn Auto Provisioning 25
About PowerOn Auto Provisioning 25
Network Requirements for POAP 25
Secure Download of POAP Script 26
Network Requirements for Secure POAP 29
Deployment Scenarios 29
iv

Contents
SUDI Supported Device as File Server 29
Non-SUDI Supported Device as a File Server 30
Benchmark Configured Device 31
Secure POAP on a Device Shipped with Old Image 31
Troubleshooting Secure POAP 32
Disabling POAP 32
POAP Configuration Script 33
POAP Configuration Script 33
Using the POAP Script and POAP Script Options 34
Setting up the DHCP Server without DNS for POAP 37
Downloading and Using User Data, Agents, and Scripts as part of POAP 37
POAP Process 38
Power-Up Phase 39
USB Discovery Phase 40
DHCP Discovery Phase 40
Script Execution Phase 42
Post-Installation Reload Phase 42
POAPv3 42
Guidelines and Limitations for POAP 44
Setting Up the Network Environment to Use POAP 46
Configuring a Switch Using POAP 46
Creating md5 Files 47
Verifying the Device Configuration 49
Troubleshooting for POAP 50
Managing the POAP Personality 50
POAP Personality 50
Backing Up the POAP Personality 51
Configuring the POAP Personality 51
Restoring the POAP Personality 53
POAP Personality Sample Script 53
C H A P T E R 5 Using Network Plug and Play 55
About Network Plug and Play 55
Guidelines and Limitations for Network Plug and Play 62
v

Contents
Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play 63
C H A P T E R 6 Understanding the Command-Line Interface 69
About the CLI Prompt 69
Command Modes 70
EXEC Command Mode 70
Global Configuration Command Mode 70
Interface Configuration Command Mode 71
Subinterface Configuration Command Mode 72
Saving and Restoring a Command Mode 72
Exiting a Configuration Command Mode 73
Command Mode Summary 73
Special Characters 74
Keystroke Shortcuts 75
Abbreviating Commands 78
Completing a Partial Command Name 78
Identifying Your Location in the Command Hierarchy 79
Using the no Form of a Command 79
Configuring CLI Variables 80
About CLI Variables 80
Configuring CLI Session-Only Variables 81
Configuring Persistent CLI Variables 81
Command Aliases 82
About Command Aliases 82
Defining Command Aliases 83
Configuring Command Aliases for a User Session 84
Command Scripts 85
Running a Command Script 85
Echoing Information to the Terminal 85
Delaying Command Action 86
Context-Sensitive Help 87
Understanding Regular Expressions 88
Special Characters 88
Multiple-Character Patterns 89
vi

Contents
Anchoring 89
Searching and Filtering show Command Output 89
Filtering and Searching Keywords 90
diff Utility 91
grep and egrep Utilities 92
less Utility 93
Mini AWK Utility 93
sed Utility 93
sort Utility 93
Searching and Filtering from the --More-- Prompt 94
Using the Command History 95
Recalling a Command 95
Controlling CLI History Recall 95
Configuring the CLI Edit Mode 96
Displaying the Command History 96
Enabling or Disabling the CLI Confirmation Prompts 97
Setting CLI Display Colors 97
Sending Commands to Modules 98
Sending Command Output in Email 99
BIOS Loader Prompt 101
Examples Using the CLI 101
Using the System-Defined Timestamp Variable 101
Using CLI Session Variables 101
Defining Command Aliases 102
Running a Command Script 102
Sending Command Output in Email 103
C H A P T E R 7 Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions 105
About Terminal Settings and Sessions 105
Terminal Session Settings 105
Console Port 105
Virtual Terminals 106
Default Settings for File System Parameters 106
Configuring the Console Port 106
vii

Contents
Configuring Virtual Terminals 108
Configuring the Inactive Session Timeout 108
Configuring the Session Limit 109
Clearing Terminal Sessions 110
Displaying Terminal and Session Information 110
C H A P T E R 8 Basic Device Management 113
About Basic Device Management 113
Device Hostname 113
Message-of-the-Day Banner 113
Device Clock 113
Clock Manager 114
Time Zone and Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time) 114
User Sessions 114
Default Settings for Basic Device Parameters 114
Changing the Device Hostname 114
Configuring the MOTD Banner 115
Configuring the Time Zone 117
Configuring Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time) 117
Manually Setting the Device Clock 119
Setting the Clock Manager 119
Managing Users 120
Displaying Information about the User Sessions 120
Sending a Message to Users 121
Verifying the Device Configuration 121
C H A P T E R 9 Using the Device File Systems, Directories, and Files 123
About the Device File Systems, Directories, and Files 123
File Systems 123
Directories 124
Files 124
Guidelines and Limitations 125
Default Settings for File System Parameters 125
Configuring the FTP, HTTP, or TFTP Source Interface 125
viii

Contents
Working with Directories 126
Identifying the Current Directory 126
Changing the Current Directory 126
Creating a Directory 127
Displaying Directory Contents 127
Deleting a Directory 128
Accessing Directories on the Standby Supervisor Module 129
Working with Files 129
Moving Files 129
Copying Files 130
Copying Files Using HTTP or HTTPS 131
Deleting Files 132
Displaying File Contents 132
Displaying File Checksums 133
Compressing and Uncompressing Files 133
Displaying the Last Lines in a File 134
Redirecting show Command Output to a File 134
Finding Files 135
Formatting the Bootflash 135
Working with Archive Files 136
Creating an Archive File 136
Appending Files to an Archive File 137
Extracting Files from an Archive File 138
Displaying the Filenames in an Archive File 138
SSD Re-partitioning 139
Enable or Disable Tech-Support Command 141
Displaying Tech-support Blocked CLIs 141
Examples of Using the File System 142
Accessing Directories on Standby Supervisor Modules 142
Moving Files 143
Copying Files 143
Deleting a Directory 143
Displaying File Contents 144
Displaying File Checksums 144
ix

Contents
Compressing and Uncompressing Files 145
Redirecting show Command Output 145
Finding Files 146
C H A P T E R 1 0 Working with Configuration Files 147
About Configuration Files 147
Types of Configuration Files 147
Guidelines and Limitations for Configuration Files 148
Managing Configuration Files 148
Saving the Running Configuration to the Startup Configuration 148
Copying a Configuration File to a Remote Server 148
Downloading the Running Configuration From a Remote Server 149
Downloading the Startup Configuration From a Remote Server 150
Copying Configuration Files to an External Flash Memory Device 152
Copying the Running Configuration from an External Flash Memory Device 153
Copying the Startup Configuration From an External Flash Memory Device 154
Copying Configuration Files to an Internal File System 154
Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration 155
Removing the Configuration for a Missing Module 156
Erasing a Configuration 157
Clearing Inactive Configurations 158
Configuration Archive and Configuration Log 159
Information About Configuration Archive 159
Configuring the Characteristics of the Configuration Archive 160
Information About Configuration Log 161
Displaying Configuration Log Entries 162
Verifying the Device Configuration 163
Examples of Working with Configuration Files 165
Copying Configuration Files 165
Backing Up Configuration Files 165
Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration 165
C H A P T E R 1 1 Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector 167
Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector Overview 167
x

Contents
Guidelines and Limitations 168
Configuring Nexus Switch to Intersight 168
Verifying NXDC configuration and status 170
Claiming Nexus Switches in Intersight 171
xi

Contents
Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Fundamentals Configuration Guide, Release 10.5(x)
xii

Preface
This preface includes the following sections:
• Audience, on page xiii
• Document Conventions, on page xiii
• Related Documentation for Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches, on page xiv
• Documentation Feedback, on page xiv
• Communications, services, and additional information, on page xiv
Audience
This publication is for network administrators who install, configure, and maintain Cisco Nexus switches.
Document Conventions
Command descriptions use the following conventions:
Convention Description
bold Bold text indicates the commands and keywords that you enter literally
as shown.
Italic Italic text indicates arguments for which you supply the values.
[x] Square brackets enclose an optional element (keyword or argument).
[x | y] Square brackets enclosing keywords or arguments that are separated by
a vertical bar indicate an optional choice.
{x | y} Braces enclosing keywords or arguments that are separated by a vertical
bar indicate a required choice.
[x {y | z}] Nested set of square brackets or braces indicate optional or required
choices within optional or required elements. Braces and a vertical bar
within square brackets indicate a required choice within an optional
element.
xiii

Preface
Related Documentation for Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches
Convention Description
variable Indicates a variable for which you supply values, in context where italics
cannot be used.
string A nonquoted set of characters. Do not use quotation marks around the
string or the string includes the quotation marks.
Examples use the following conventions:
Convention Description
screen font Terminal sessions and information the switch displays are in screen font.
boldface screen font Information that you must enter is in boldface screen font.
italic screen font Arguments for which you supply values are in italic screen font.
< > Nonprinting characters, such as passwords, are in angle brackets.
[ ] Default responses to system prompts are in square brackets.
!, # An exclamation point (!) or a pound sign (#) at the beginning of a line
of code indicates a comment line.
Related Documentation for Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches
The entire Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switch documentation set is available at the following URL:
https://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/ps13386/tsd_products_support_series_home.html
Documentation Feedback
To provide technical feedback on this document, or to report an error or omission, please send your comments
to nexus9k-docfeedback@cisco.com. We appreciate your feedback.
Communications, services, and additional information
• To receive timely, relevant information from Cisco, sign up at Cisco Profile Manager.
• To get the business impact you’re looking for with the technologies that matter, visit Cisco Services.
• To submit a service request, visit Cisco Support.
• To discover and browse secure, validated enterprise-class apps, products, solutions, and services, visit
Cisco DevNet.
• To obtain general networking, training, and certification titles, visit Cisco Press.
• To find warranty information for a specific product or product family, access Cisco Warranty Finder.
xiv

Preface
Cisco Bug Search Tool
Cisco Bug Search Tool
Cisco Bug Search Tool (BST) is a gateway to the Cisco bug-tracking system, which maintains a comprehensive
list of defects and vulnerabilities in Cisco products and software. The BST provides you with detailed defect
information about your products and software.
Documentation feedback
To provide feedback about Cisco technical documentation, use the feedback form available in the right pane
of every online document.
xv

Preface
Documentation feedback
xvi

1
New and Changed Information
• New and Changed Information, on page 1
New and Changed Information
Table1:NewandChangedFeatures
Feature Description Changed in Release Where Documented
POAP - Support on Cisco Added support for POAP 10.5(3)F Guidelines and
N9364E-SG2-O and on Cisco N9364E-SG2-O Limitations for POAP, on
N9364E-SG2-Q switches and N9364E-SG2-Q ToR page 44
switches
NA No new features added in 10.5(1)F NA
this release.
1

New and Changed Information
New and Changed Information
2

2
Overview
This chapter contains these sections:
• Licensing Requirements, on page 3
• Supported Platforms, on page 3
• Software Image, on page 3
• Software Compatibility, on page 4
• Serviceability, on page 4
• Manageability, on page 5
• Programmability, on page 6
• Traffic Routing, Forwarding, and Management, on page 7
• Quality of Service, on page 9
• Network Security Features, on page 9
• Supported Standards, on page 10
Licensing Requirements
See the Cisco NX-OS Licensing Guide and Cisco NX-OS Licensing Options Guide for Cisco NX-OS
licensing recommendations and instructions to obtain and apply licenses.
Supported Platforms
See the Nexus Switch Platform Support Matrix to know from which Cisco NX-OS releases various Cisco
Nexus 9000 and 3000 switches support a selected feature.
Software Image
The Cisco NX-OS software consists of one NXOS software image.
3

Overview
Software Compatibility
Software Compatibility
The Cisco NX-OS software interoperates with Cisco products that run any variant of the Cisco IOS software.
The Cisco NX-OS software also interoperates with any networking operating system that conforms to the
IEEE and RFC compliance standards.
Spine/Leaf Topology
The Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switches support a two-tier spine/leaf topology.
Figure1:Spine/LeafTopology
This figure shows an example of a spine/leaf topology with four leaf switches (Cisco Nexus 9396 or 93128)
connecting into two spine switches (Cisco Nexus 9508) and two 40G Ethernet uplinks from each leaf to each
spine.
Modular Software Design
The Cisco NX-OS software supports distributed multithreaded processing on symmetric multiprocessors
(SMPs), multi-core CPUs, and distributed data module processors. The Cisco NX-OS software offloads
computationally intensive tasks, such as hardware table programming, to dedicated processors distributed
across the data modules. The modular processes are created on demand, each in a separate protected memory
space. Processes are started and system resources are allocated only when you enable a feature. A real-time
preemptive scheduler helps to ensure the timely processing of critical functions.
Serviceability
The Cisco NX-OS software has serviceability functions that allow the device to respond to network trends
and events. These features help you with network planning and improving response times.
Switched Port Analyzer
The Switched Port Analyzer (SPAN) feature allows you to analyze all traffic between ports (called the SPAN
source ports) by nonintrusively directing the SPAN session traffic to a SPAN destination port that has an
external analyzer attached to it. For more information about SPAN, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS
System Management Configuration Guide.
4

Overview
Ethanalyzer
Ethanalyzer
Ethanalyzer is a Cisco NX-OS protocol analyzer tool based on the Wireshark (formerly Ethereal) open source
code. Ethanalyzer is a command-line version of Wireshark for capturing and decoding packets. You can use
Ethanalyzer to troubleshoot your network and analyze the control-plane traffic. For more information about
Ethanalyzer, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Troubleshooting Guide.
Smart Call Home
The Call Home feature continuously monitors hardware and software components to provide e-mail-based
notification of critical system events. A versatile range of message formats is available for optimal compatibility
with standard e-mail and XML-based automated parsing applications. It offers alert grouping capabilities and
customizable destination profiles. You can use this feature, for example, to send an e-mail message to a
network operations center (NOC) and employ Cisco AutoNotify services to directly generate a case with the
Cisco Technical Assistance Center (TAC). For more information about Smart Call Home, see the Cisco Nexus
9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Online Diagnostics
Cisco generic online diagnostics (GOLD) verify that hardware and internal data paths are operating as designed.
Boot-time diagnostics, continuous monitoring, and on-demand and scheduled tests are part of the Cisco GOLD
feature set. GOLD allows rapid fault isolation and continuous system monitoring. For information about
configuring GOLD, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Embedded Event Manager
Cisco Embedded Event Manager (EEM) is a device and system management feature that helps you to customize
behavior based on network events as they happen. For information about configuring EEM, see the Cisco
Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Manageability
This section describes the manageability features for the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switches.
Simple Network Management Protocol
The Cisco NX-OS software is compliant with Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) version 1,
version 2, and version 3. A large number of MIBs is supported. For more information about SNMP, see the
Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Configuration Verification and Rollback
The Cisco NX-OS software allows you to verify the consistency of a configuration and the availability of
necessary hardware resources prior to committing the configuration. You can preconfigure a device and apply
the verified configuration at a later time. Configurations also include checkpoints that allow you to roll back
to a known good configuration as needed. For more information about rollbacks, see the Cisco Nexus 9000
Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
5

Overview
Role-Based Access Control
Role-Based Access Control
With role-based access control (RBAC), you can limit access to device operations by assigning roles to users.
You can customize access and restrict it to the users who require it. For more information about RBAC, see
the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
Cisco NX-OS Device Configuration Methods
You can use these methods to configure Cisco NX-OS devices:
• The CLI from a Secure Shell (SSH) session, a Telnet session, or the console port. SSH provides a secure
connection to the device. The CLI configuration guides are organized by feature. For more information,
see the Cisco NX-OS configuration guides. For more information about SSH and Telnet, see the Cisco
Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
• The XML management interface, which is a programmatic method based on the NETCONF protocol
that complements the CLI. For more information, see the Cisco NX-OS XML Interface User Guide.
• The Cisco Nexus Dashboard Fabric Controller (NDFC) client, which runs on your local PC and uses
web services on the Cisco NDFC server. The Cisco NDFC server configures the device over the XML
management interface. For more information about the Cisco NDFC client, see the Cisco NDFC
Fundamentals Guide.
Programmability
This section describes the programmability features for the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switches.
Python API
Python is an easy-to-learn, powerful programming language. It has efficient high-level data structures and a
simple but effective approach to object-oriented programming. Python's elegant syntax and dynamic typing,
together with its interpreted nature, make it an ideal language for scripting and rapid application development
in many areas on most platforms. The Python interpreter and the extensive standard library are freely available
in source or binary form for all major platforms from the Python website: http://www.python.org/. The Python
scripting capability gives programmatic access to the CLI to perform various tasks and Power-On Auto
Provisioning (POAP) or Embedded Event Manager (EEM) actions. For more information about the Python
API and Python scripting, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Programmability Guide.
Tcl
Tool Command Language (Tcl) is a scripting language. With Tcl, you gain more flexibility in your use of the
CLI commands on the device. You can use Tcl to extract certain values in the output of a show command,
perform switch configurations, run Cisco NX-OS commands in a loop, or define EEM policies in a script.
Cisco NX-API
The Cisco NX-API provides web-based programmatic access to the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switches. This
support is delivered through the NX-API open-source web server. The Cisco NX-API exposes the complete
configuration and management capabilities of the command-line interface (CLI) through web-based APIs.
6

Overview
Bash Shell
You can configure the switch to publish the output of the API calls in either XML or JSON format. For more
information about the Cisco NX-API, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Programmability Guide.
Note NX-API performs authentication through a programmable authentication module (PAM) on the switch. Use
cookies to reduce the number of PAM authentications and thus reduce the load on PAM.
Bash Shell
The Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switches support direct Linux shell access. With Linux shell support, you can
access the Linux system on the switch in order to use Linux commands and manage the underlying system.
For more information about Bash shell support, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Programmability
Guide.
Broadcom Shell
The Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switch front-panel and fabric module line cards contain several Broadcom
ASICs. You can use the CLI to access the command-line shell (bcm shell) for these ASICs. The benefit of
using this method to access the bcm shell is that you can use Cisco NX-OS command extensions such as pipe
include and redirect output to file to manage the output. In addition, the activity is recorded in the system
accounting log for audit purposes, unlike commands entered directly from the bcm shell, which are not recorded
in the accounting log. For more information about Broadcom shell support, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series
NX-OS Programmability Guide.
Caution Use Broadcom shell commands with caution and only under the direct supervision or request of Cisco Support
personnel.
Traffic Routing, Forwarding, and Management
This section describes the traffic routing, forwarding, and management features supported by the Cisco NX-OS
software.
Ethernet Switching
The Cisco NX-OS software supports high-density, high-performance Ethernet systems and provides the
following Ethernet switching features:
• IEEE 802.1D-2004 Rapid and Multiple Spanning Tree Protocols (802.1w and 802.1s)
• IEEE 802.1Q VLANs and trunks
• IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation
• Unidirectional Link Detection (UDLD) in aggressive and standard modes
7

Overview
IP Routing
For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Interfaces Configuration Guide and the Cisco
Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Layer 2 Switching Configuration Guide.
IP Routing
The Cisco NX-OS software supports IP version 4 (IPv4) and IP version 6 (IPv6) and the following routing
protocols:
• Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) Protocol Versions 2 (IPv4) and 3 (IPv6)
• Intermediate System-to-Intermediate System (IS-IS) Protocol (IPv4 and IPv6)
• Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) (IPv4 and IPv6)
• Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) (IPv4 only)
• Routing Information Protocol Version 2 (RIPv2) (IPv4 only)
The Cisco NX-OS software implementations of these protocols are fully compliant with the latest standards
and include 4-byte autonomous system numbers (ASNs) and incremental shortest path first (SPF). All unicast
protocols support Non-Stop Forwarding Graceful Restart (NSF-GR). All protocols support all interface types,
including Ethernet interfaces, VLAN interfaces, subinterfaces, port channels, and loopback interfaces.
For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Unicast Routing Configuration Guide.
IP Services
The following IP services are available in the Cisco NX-OS software:
• Virtual routing and forwarding (VRF)
• Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) helper
• Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP)
• Enhanced object tracking
• Policy-based routing (PBR)
• Unicast graceful restart for all protocols in IPv4 unicast graceful restart for OPSFv3 in IPv6
For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Unicast Routing Configuration Guide.
IP Multicast
The Cisco NX-OS software includes the following multicast protocols and functions:
• Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) Version 2 (PIMv2)
• PIM sparse mode (Any-Source Multicast [ASM] for IPv4)
• Anycast rendezvous point (Anycast-RP)
• Multicast NSF for IPv4
• RP-Discovery using bootstrap router (BSR) (Auto-RP and static)
8

Overview
Quality of Service
• Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) Versions 1, 2, and 3 router role
• IGMPv2 host mode
• IGMP snooping
• Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP) (for IPv4)
Note The Cisco NX-OS software does not support PIM dense mode.
For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Multicast Routing Configuration Guide.
Quality of Service
The Cisco NX-OS software supports quality of service (QoS) functions for classification, marking, queuing,
policing, and scheduling. Modular QoS CLI (MQC) supports all QoS features. You can use MQC to provide
uniform configurations across various Cisco platforms. For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series
NX-OS Quality of Service Configuration Guide.
Network Security Features
The Cisco NX-OS software includes the following security features:
• Control Plane Policing (CoPP)
• Message-digest algorithm 5 (MD5) routing protocol authentication
• Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA)
• RADIUS and TACACS+
• SSH Protocol Version 2
• SNMPv3
• Policies based on MAC and IPv4 addresses supported by named ACLs (port-based ACLs [PACLs],
VLAN-based ACLs [VACLs], and router-based ACLs [RACLs])
• Traffic storm control (unicast, multicast, and broadcast)
For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
9

Overview
Supported Standards
Supported Standards
This table lists the IEEE compliance standards.
Table2:IEEEComplianceStandards
Standard Description
802.1D MAC Bridges
802.1p Class of Service Tagging for Ethernet frames
802.1Q VLAN Tagging
802.1s Multiple Spanning Tree Protocol
802.1w Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol
802.3ab 1000Base-T (10/100/1000 Ethernet over copper)
802.3ad Link aggregation with LACP
802.3ae 10-Gigabit Ethernet
This table lists the RFC compliance standards. For information on each RFC, see www.ietf.org.
Table3:RFCComplianceStandards
Standard Description
BGP
RFC 1997 BGP Communities Attribute
RFC 2385 Protection of BGP Sessions via the
TCP MD5 Signature Option
RFC 2439 BGP Route flap damping
RFC 2519 A Framework for Inter-Domain
Route Aggregation
RFC 2545 Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol
Extensions for IPv6 Inter-Domain
Routing
RFC 2858 Multiprotocol Extensions for
BGP-4
RFC 2918 Route Refresh Capability for
BGP-4
RFC 3065 Autonomous System Confederations
for BGP
10

Overview
Supported Standards
Standard Description
RFC 3392 Capabilities Advertisement with
BGP-4
RFC 4271 BGP version 4
RFC 4273 BGP4 MIB - Definitions of
Managed Objects for BGP-4
RFC 4456 BGP Route Reflection: An
Alternative to Full Mesh Internal
BGP (IBGP)
RFC 4486 Subcodes for BGP cease
notification message
RFC 4724 Graceful Restart Mechanism for
BGP
RFC 4893 BGP Support for Four-octet AS
Number Space
RFC 5004 Avoid BGP Best Path Transitions
from One External to Another
RFC 5396 Textual Representation of
Autonomous System (AS) Numbers
Note
RFC 5396 is partially supported.
The asplain and asdot notations are
supported, but the asdot+ notation
is not.
RFC 5549 Advertising IPv4 Network Layer
Reachability Information with an
IPv6 Next Hop
RFC 5668 4-Octet AS Specific BGP Extended
Community
ietf-draft Bestpath transition avoidance
(draft-ietf-idr-avoid-transition-05.txt)
ietf-draft Peer table objects
(draft-ietf-idr-bgp4-mib-15.txt)
ietf-draft Dynamic Capability
(draft-ietf-idr-dynamic-cap-03.txt)
IP Multicast
11

Overview
Supported Standards
Standard Description
RFC 2236 Internet Group Management
Protocol, Version 2
RFC 3376 Internet Group Management
Protocol, Version 3
RFC 3446 Anycast Rendezvous Point (RP)
mechanism using Protocol
Independent Multicast (PIM) and
Multicast Source Discovery
Protocol (MSDP)
RFC 3569 An Overview of Source-Specific
Multicast (SSM)
RFC 3618 Multicast Source Discovery
Protocol (MSDP)
RFC 4601 Protocol Independent Multicast -
Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
Specification (Revised)
RFC 4607 Source-Specific Multicast for IP
RFC 4610 Anycast-RP Using Protocol
Independent Multicast (PIM)
RFC 6187 X.509v3 Certificates for Secure
Shell Authentication
RFC 9465 PIM Null-Register Packing
ietf-draft Mtrace server functionality, to
process mtrace-requests,
draft-ietf-idmr-traceroute-ipm-07.txt
IP Services
RFC 768 UDP
RFC 783 TFTP
RFC 791 IP
RFC 792 ICMP
RFC 793 TCP
RFC 826 ARP
RFC 854 Telnet
RFC 959 FTP
12

Overview
Supported Standards
Standard Description
RFC 1027 Proxy ARP
RFC 8573 NTP security is enhanced with the
AES128CMAC authentication
mechanism
RFC 7822 NTP v4
RFC 1305 NTP v3
RFC 1519 CIDR
RFC 1542 BootP relay
RFC 1591 DNS client
RFC 1812 IPv4 routers
RFC 2131 DHCP Helper
RFC 2338 VRRP
IS-IS
RFC 1142 (OSI 10589) OSI 10589 Intermediate system to
intermediate system intra-domain
routing exchange protocol
RFC 1195 Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in
TCP/IP and dual environment
RFC 2763 Dynamic Hostname Exchange
Mechanism for IS-IS
RFC 2966 Domain-wide Prefix Distribution
with Two-Level IS-IS
RFC 2973 IS-IS Mesh Groups
RFC 3277 IS-IS Transient Blackhole
Avoidance
RFC 3373 Three-Way Handshake for IS-IS
Point-to-Point Adjacencies
RFC 3567 IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication
RFC 3847 Restart Signaling for IS-IS
ietf-draft Internet Draft Point-to-point
operation over LAN in link-state
routing protocols
(draft-ietf-isis-igp-p2p-over-lan-06.txt)
13

Overview
Supported Standards
Standard Description
OSPF
RFC 2328 OSPF Version 2
RFC 2370 OSPF Opaque LSA Option
RFC 2740 OSPF for IPv6 (OSPF version 3)
RFC 3101 OSPF Not-So-Stubby-Area (NSSA)
Option
RFC 3137 OSPF Stub Router Advertisement
RFC 3509 Alternative Implementations of
OSPF Area Border Routers
RFC 3623 Graceful OSPF Restart
RFC 4750 OSPF Version 2 MIB
Per-Hop Behavior (PHB)
RFC 2597 Assured Forwarding PHB Group
RFC 3246 An Expedited Forwarding PHB
RIP
RFC 1724 RIPv2 MIB extension
RFC 2082 RIPv2 MD5 Authentication
RFC 2453 RIP Version 2
SNMP
RFC 2579 Textual Conventions for SMIv2
RFC 2819 Remote Network Monitoring
Management Information Base
RFC 2863 The Interfaces Group MIB
RFC 3164 The BSD syslog Protocol
RFC 3176 InMon Corporation's sFlow: A
Method for Monitoring Traffic in
Switched and Routed Networks
RFC 3411 and RFC 3418 An Architecture for Describing
Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP) Management
Frameworks
14

Overview
Supported Standards
Standard Description
RFC 3413 Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP) Applications
RFC 3417 Transport Mappings for the Simple
Network Management Protocol
(SNMP)
Programmability
RFC 8040 RESTCONF Protocol
15

Overview
Supported Standards
16

3
Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
This chapter contains these sections:
• About the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility, on page 17
• Prerequisites for the Setup Utility, on page 18
• Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device, on page 19
• Additional References for the Setup Utility, on page 24
About the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
The Cisco NX-OS setup utility is an interactive command-line interface (CLI) mode that guides you through
a basic (also called a startup) configuration of the system. The setup utility allows you to configure only
enough connectivity for system management.
The setup utility allows you to build an initial configuration file using the System Configuration Dialog. The
setup starts automatically when a device has no configuration file in NVRAM. The dialog guides you through
initial configuration. After the file is created, you can use the CLI to perform additional configuration.
You can press Ctrl-C at any prompt to skip the remaining configuration options and proceed with what you
have configured up to that point, except for the administrator password. If you want to skip answers to any
questions, press Enter. If a default answer is not available (for example, the device hostname), the device
uses what was previously configured and skips to the next question.
17

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Prerequisites for the Setup Utility
Figure2:SetupScriptFlow
This figure shows how to enter and exit the setup script.
You use the setup utility mainly for configuring the system initially, when no configuration is present. However,
you can use the setup utility at any time for basic device configuration. The setup utility keeps the configured
values when you skip steps in the script. For example, if you have already configured the mgmt0 interface,
the setup utility does not change that configuration if you skip that step. However, if there is a default value
for the step, the setup utility changes to the configuration using that default, not the configured value. Be sure
to carefully check the configuration changes before you save the configuration.
Note Be sure to configure the IPv4 route, the default network IPv4 address, and the default gateway IPv4 address
to enable SNMP access. If you enable IPv4 routing, the device uses the IPv4 route and the default network
IPv4 address. If IPv4 routing is disabled, the device uses the default gateway IPv4 address.
Note The setup script only supports IPv4.
Prerequisites for the Setup Utility
The setup utility has the following prerequisites:
18

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
• Have a password strategy for your network environment.
• Connect the console port on the supervisor module to the network. If you have dual supervisor modules,
connect the console ports on both supervisor modules to the network.
• Connect the Ethernet management port on the supervisor module to the network. If you have dual
supervisor modules, connect the Ethernet management ports on both supervisor modules to the network.
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
To configure basic management of the Cisco NX-OS device using the setup utility, follow these steps:
Procedure
Step 1 Power on the device.
Step 2 Enable or disable password-strength checking.
A strong password has the following characteristics:
• At least eight characters long
• Does not contain many consecutive characters (such as "abcd")
• Does not contain many repeating characters (such as "aaabbb")
• Does not contain dictionary words
• Does not contain proper names
• Contains both uppercase and lowercase characters
• Contains numbers
Example:
---- System Admin Account Setup ----
Do you want to enforce secure password standard (yes/no) [y]: y
Step 3 Enter the new password for the administrator.
Note
If a password is trivial (such as a short, easy-to-decipher password), your password configuration is rejected. Passwords
are case sensitive. Be sure to configure a strong password that has at least eight characters, both uppercase and lowercase
letters, and numbers.
Example:
Enter the password for "admin": <password>
Confirm the password for "admin": <password>
---- Basic System Configuration Dialog ----
19

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
This setup utility will guide you through the basic configuration of
the system. Setup configures only enough connectivity for management
of the system.
Please register Cisco Nexus 9000 Family devices promptly with your
supplier. Failure to register may affect response times for initial
service calls. Nexus devices must be registered to receive
entitled support services.
Press Enter at anytime to skip a dialog. Use ctrl-c at anytime
to skip the remaining dialogs.
Step 4 Enter the setup mode by entering yes.
Example:
Would you like to enter the basic configuration dialog (yes/no): yes
Step 5 Create additional accounts by entering yes (no is the default).
Example:
Create another login account (yes/no) [n]:yes
a) Enter the user login ID.
Example:
Enter the User login Id : user_login
Caution
Usernames must begin with an alphanumeric character and can contain only these special characters: ( + = . _ \ -).
The # and ! symbols are not supported. If the username contains characters that are not allowed, the specified user
is unable to log in.
b) Enter the user password.
Example:
Enter the password for "user1": user_password
Confirm the password for "user1": user_password
c) Enter the default user role.
Example:
Enter the user role (network-operator|network-admin) [network-operator]: default_user_role
For information on the default user roles, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
Step 6 Configure an SNMP community string by entering yes.
Example:
20

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
Configure read-only SNMP community string (yes/no) [n]: yes
SNMP community string : snmp_community_string
For information on SNMP, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Step 7 Enter a name for the device (the default name is switch).
Example:
Enter the switch name: switch_name
Step 8 Configure out-of-band management by entering yes. You can then enter the mgmt0 IPv4 address and subnet mask.
Note
You can only configure IPv4 address in the setup utility. For information on configuring IPv6, see the Cisco Nexus
9000 Series NX-OS Unicast Routing Configuration Guide.
Example:
Continue with Out-of-band (mgmt0) management configuration? [yes/no]: yes
Mgmt0 IPv4 address: mgmt0_ip_address
Mgmt0 IPv4 netmask: mgmt0_subnet_mask
Step 9 Configure the IPv4 default gateway (recommended) by entering yes. You can then enter its IP address.
Example:
Configure the default-gateway: (yes/no) [y]: yes
IPv4 address of the default-gateway: default_gateway
Step 10 Configure advanced IP options such as the static routes, default network, DNS, and domain name by entering yes.
Example:
Configure Advanced IP options (yes/no)? [n]: yes
Step 11 Configure a static route (recommended) by entering yes. You can then enter its destination prefix, destination prefix
mask, and next hop IP address.
Example:
Configure static route: (yes/no) [y]: yes
Destination prefix: dest_prefix
Destination prefix mask: dest_mask
Next hop ip address: next_hop_address
Step 12 Configure the default network (recommended) by entering yes. You can then enter its IPv4 address.
Note
The default network IPv4 address is the same as the destination prefix in the static route configuration.
Example:
21

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
Configure the default network: (yes/no) [y]: yes
Default network IP address [dest_prefix]: dest_prefix
Step 13 Configure the DNS IPv4 address by entering yes. You can then enter the address.
Example:
Configure the DNS IP address? (yes/no) [y]: yes
DNS IP address: ipv4_address
Step 14 Configure the default domain name by entering yes. You can then enter the name.
Example:
Configure the DNS IP address? (yes/no) [y]: yes
DNS IP address: ipv4_address
Step 15 Enable the Telnet service by entering yes.
Example:
Enable the telnet service? (yes/no) [y]: yes
Step 16 Enable the SSH service by entering yes. You can then enter the key type and number of key bits. For more information,
see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
Example:
Enable the ssh service? (yes/no) [y]: yes
Type of ssh key you would like to generate (dsa/rsa) : key_type
Number of key bits <768-2048> : number_of_bits
Step 17 Configure the NTP server by entering yes. You can then enter its IP address. For more information, see the Cisco
Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
Example:
Configure NTP server? (yes/no) [n]: yes
NTP server IP address: ntp_server_IP_address
Step 18 Specify a default interface layer (L2 or L3).
Example:
Configure default interface layer (L3/L2) [L3]: interface_layer
Step 19 Enter the default switchport interface state (shutdown or no shutdown). A shutdown interface is in an administratively
down state. For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Interfaces Configuration Guide.
Example:
22

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Setting Up Your Cisco NX-OS Device
Configure default switchport interface state (shut/noshut) [shut]: default_state
Step 20 Enter yes (no is the default) to configure basic Fibre Channel configurations.
Example:
Enter basic FC configurations (yes/no) [n]: yes
Note
This step is available only on platforms that support SAN switching.
a) Enter shut (noshut is the default) to configure the default Fibre Channel switch port interface to the shut (disabled)
state.
Example:
Configure default physical FC switchport interface state (shut/noshut) [noshut]: shut
b) Enter on (on is the default) to configure the switch port trunk mode
Example:
Configure default physical FC switchport trunk mode (on/off/auto) [on]: on
c) Enter permit (deny is the default) to permit a default zone policy configuration.
Example:
Configure default zone policy (permit/deny) [deny]: permit
Permits traffic flow to all members of the default zone.
Example:
Note
If you are executing the setup script after entering a write erase command, you explicitly must change the default
zone policy to permit for VSAN 1 after finishing the script using the following command:
switch(config)# zone default-zone permit vsan 1
d) Enter yes (no is the default) to enable a full zone set distribution.
Example:
Enable full zoneset distribution (yes/no) [n]: yes
Step 21 Enter the best practices profile for control plane policing (CoPP). For more information, see the Cisco Nexus 9000
Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide.
Example:
23

Using the Cisco NX-OS Setup Utility
Additional References for the Setup Utility
Configure best practices CoPP profile (strict/moderate/lenient/none) [strict]: moderate
The system now summarizes the complete configuration and asks if you want to edit it.
Step 22 Continue to the next step by entering no. If you enter yes, the setup utility returns to the beginning of the setup and
repeats each step.
Example:
Would you like to edit the configuration? (yes/no) [y]: yes
Step 23 Use and save this configuration by entering yes. If you do not save the configuration at this point, none of your changes
are part of the configuration the next time the device reboots. Enter yes to save the new configuration. This step ensures
that the boot variables for the nx-os image are also automatically configured.
Example:
Use this configuration and save it? (yes/no) [y]: yes
Caution
If you do not save the configuration at this point, none of your changes are part of the configuration the next time that
the device reboots. Enter yes to save the new configuration to ensure that the boot variables for the nx-os image are
also automatically configured.
Additional References for the Setup Utility
This section includes additional information related to using the setup utility.
Related Documents for the Setup Utility
Related Topic Document Title
Licensing Cisco NX-OS Licensing Guide
SSH and Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide
Telnet
User roles Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security Configuration Guide
IPv4 and IPv6 Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Unicast Routing Configuration Guide
SNMP and Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide
NTP
24

4
This chapter contains the following sections:
• About PowerOn Auto Provisioning, on page 25
• POAPv3, on page 42
• Guidelines and Limitations for POAP, on page 44
• Setting Up the Network Environment to Use POAP, on page 46
• Configuring a Switch Using POAP, on page 46
• Creating md5 Files, on page 47
• Verifying the Device Configuration, on page 49
• Troubleshooting for POAP, on page 50
• Managing the POAP Personality, on page 50
About PowerOn Auto Provisioning
PowerOn Auto Provisioning (POAP) automates the process of upgrading software images and installing
configuration files on devices that are being deployed in the network for the first time.
When a device with the POAP feature boots and does not find the startup configuration, the device enters
POAP mode, locates a DHCP server, and bootstraps itself with its interface IP address, gateway, and DNS
server IP addresses. The device also obtains the IP address of a TFTP server and downloads a configuration
script that enables the switch to download and install the appropriate software image and configuration file.
Note The DHCP information is used only during the POAP process.
Network Requirements for POAP
POAP requires the following network infrastructure:
• A DHCP server to bootstrap the interface IP address, gateway address, and Domain Name System (DNS)
server.
• A TFTP server that contains the configuration script used to automate the software image installation
and configuration process.
• One or more servers that contains the desired software images and configuration files.
25

Secure Download of POAP Script
• If you use USB, then no DHCP server or TFTP server are required for POAP.
Figure3:POAPNetworkInfrastructure
Secure Download of POAP Script
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.2(3)F, you have the option of securely downloading the POAP
script. When a device with the POAP feature boots and does not find the startup configuration, the device
enters POAP mode, locates a DHCP server, and bootstraps itself with its interface IP address, gateway, and
DNS server IP addresses. The device also obtains the IP address of an HTTPS server and downloads POAP
script securely. The script enables the switch to download and install the appropriate software image and
configuration file.
To download the POAP script securely, you need to select specific POAP options. Until Cisco NX-OS Release
10.2(3)F, POAP used options 66 and 67 for IPv4, and options 77 and 15 for IPv6 to extract the booting script
information. However, the transfer of the script uses http, and is not very secure. Beginning with Cisco NX-OS
Release 10.2(3)F, option 43 specifies the secure POAP related provisioning script information for IPv4 and
option 17 specifies the same for IPv6. Additionally, these options allow the POAP to reach the file server in
a secure manner. The POAP options 66, 67, 77, and 15 continue to be supported in Cisco NX-OS
Release10.2(3)F. Furthermore, if you are using option 43 or 17, you can use the earlier options as fallback
options, if required. From Cisco NX-OS Release 10.4(1)F, you can use Root-CA bundles instead of single
.pem certificate for Secure POAP.
Note The maximum character length is 512 bytes for both option 43 and option 17.
The sub-options available for option 43 and option 17 are discussed in the following sections:
• Option 43 - IPv4
• Option 17 - IPv6
26

Secure Download of POAP Script
IPv4
Option 43 has the following sub-options for IPv4:
• option space poap length width 2;
• option poap.version code 1 = unsigned integer 8;
Note This sub-option is mandatory.
• option poap.ca_list code 50 = text;
• option poap.url code 2 = text;
Note This sub-option is mandatory.
• option poap.debug code 51 = unsigned integer 8;
• option poap.ntp code 3 = ip-address;
Note This sub-option is only supported for IPv4 (Option 43).
• option poap.flag code 52 = unsigned integer 8;
Note Flag is used to skip server certificate validation in the client.
Sample configuration for IPv4 is as follows:
host dhclient-n9kv {
hardware ethernet 00:50:56:85:c5:30;
fixed-address 3.3.3.1;
default-lease-time 3600;
option broadcast-address 192.168.1.255;
#option log-servers 1.1.1.1;
max-lease-time 3600;
option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
option routers 10.77.143.1;
#option domain-name-servers 1.1.1.1;
vendor-option-space poap;
option poap.version 1;
option poap.ca_list "https://<ip>/poap/ca_file1.pem, https://<ip>/poap/ca_file2.pem";
option poap.url "https://<url>/poap.py";
option poap.debug 1;
option poap.ntp 10.1.1.39;
option poap.flag 0;
}
27

Secure Download of POAP Script
IPv6
Option 17 has the following sub-options for IPv6:
• option space poap_v6 length width 2;
• option poap_v6.version code 1 = unsigned integer 8;
Note This sub-option is mandatory.
• option poap_v6.ca_list code 50 = text;
• option poap_v6.url code 3 = text;
Note This sub-option is mandatory.
• option poap_v6.debug code 51 = unsigned integer 8;
• option vsio.poap_v6 code 9 = encapsulate poap_v6;
Sample configuration for IPv6 is as follows:
option dhcp6.next-hop-rt-prefix code 242 = { ip6-address, unsigned integer 16,
unsigned integer 16, unsigned integer 32, unsigned integer 8, unsigned integer 8, ip6-address
};
option dhcp6.bootfile-url code 59 = string;
default-lease-time 3600;
max-lease-time 3600;
log-facility local7;
subnet6 2003::/64 {
# This statement configures actual values to be sent
# RTPREFIX option code = 243, RTPREFIX length = 22
# Ignore value 22. It is something related to option-size RT_PREFIX option length.
# lifetime = 9000 seconds
# route ETH1_IPV6_GW/64
# metric 1
option dhcp6.next-hop-rt-prefix 2003::2222 243 22 9000 0 1 ::;
#ipv6 ::/0 2003::2222
#Another example - support not there in NXOS - CSCvs05271:
#option dhcp6.next-hop-rt-prefix 2003::2222 243 22 9000 112 1 2003::1:2:3:4:5:0;
#ipv6 2003::1:2:3:4:5:0/112 2003::2222
# Additional options
#option dhcp6.name-servers fec0:0:0:1::1;
#option dhcp6.domain-search "domain.example";
range6 2003::b:1111 2003::b:9999;
option dhcp6.bootfile-url "tftp://2003::1111/poap_github_v6.py";
vendor-option-space poap_v6;
option poap_v6.version 1;
option poap_v6.ca_list "https://<ip>/new_ca.pem,https://<ip>/another_ca.pem";
option poap_v6.url "https://<ip>/poap_github_v4.py";
28

Network Requirements for Secure POAP
option poap_v6.debug 1;
}
Network Requirements for Secure POAP
Secure POAP requires the following network infrastructure:
• A DHCP server to bootstrap the interface IP address, gateway address, and Domain Name System (DNS)
server.
• An HTTPS server that contains the POAP script used for software image installation and configuration
process.
Note • In case of secure download of POAP script, the TFTP server is replaced
with the HTTPS server. Hence, when you read the content related to the
TFTP server in this chapter, remember to read the TFTP server as the HTTPS
server.
• One or more servers that contain the desired software images and configuration files.
Deployment Scenarios
Cisco devices have a unique identifier known as the Secure Unique Device Identifier (SUDI). The hardware
SUDI can be used for authentication, as it can be used for asymmetric key operations such as encryption,
decryption, signing, and verifying that allow passage of the data to be operated upon. All non-Cisco devices
are classified as non-SUDI devices. For a non-SUDI device, the root-CA bundle is required to authenticate
the file server. However, the file server can be hosted on either a SUDI or a non-SUDI device.
Based on all these capabilities, you can use one of the following deployment scenarios to download the POAP
script in a secure way:
• SUDI Supported Device as File Server
• Non-SUDI Supported Device as File Server
SUDI Supported Device as File Server
The SUDI supported devices are Cisco devices. Unlike the earlier implementation, the DHCP server now
provides a https location rather than http/tftp. In this scenario, only the DHCP server and the SUDI supported
script server (HTTPS server) are required, other than one or more servers that contain the required software
images and configuration files.
Note SUDI only supports TLSv1.2 or below. Also, the SUDI solution only considers secure download using https,
but not sftp.
29

Non-SUDI Supported Device as a File Server
Figure4:SUDISupportedDeviceasFileServerInfrastructure
The workflow for SUDI supported devices is as follows:
• Booting device is SUDI capable and has the needed trust store to verify a SUDI certificate
• Booting device sends out DHCP discover
• DHCP server responds to booting device with https server details
• Device establishes the secure channel using standard SSL APIs
• Authentication is done by verifying SUDI on both sides
• Downloads poap.py
Non-SUDI Supported Device as a File Server
In this scenario, the Root-CA bundle must be installed in the booting device. The Root-CA bundle is required
for authentication. Here, the DHCP server, intermediate device, and non-SUDI supported script server (HTTPS
server) are required, other than one or more servers that contain the required software images and configuration
files.
The DHCP offer has the details of intermediate server that has the Root-CA bundle available. The intermediate
device should support SUDI. The booting device uses the intermediate device to download the Root-CA
bundle, install it, and then communicate with the file server. The intermediate devices should be provisioned
first.
30

Benchmark Configured Device
Figure5:Non-SUDISupportedDeviceasFileServerInfrastructure
The workflow for non-SUDI supported devices is as follows:
• Booting device is SUDI capable and has the needed trust store to verify a SUDI certificate
• Intermediate device that hosts a server with Root-CA bundle is also SUDI capable
• Booting device sends out DHCP discover
• DHCP server responds to booting device with https server details and Root-CA server details
• Booting device reaches to intermediate device, gets the CA bundle, adds it to the trust store
• Booting device reaches the file server to download poap.py
Benchmark Configured Device
The root CA certificate chain file for the Non-SUDI-supported script server must be placed in
/bootflash/poap/sudi_fs on the Benchmark Configured Server.
Note To change port on the Benchmark Configured Device, use the file-server <port-number> command. Avoid
using standard ports such as port 80 (http) and port 443 (https).
The file-server <port-number> command only serves content over the management interface.
Secure POAP on a Device Shipped with Old Image
Support for secure POAP will be available only for devices that are shipped with image that has secure POAP
feature.
31

Troubleshooting Secure POAP
If the device does not have the secure POAP feature, then use the legacy DHCP options to move the device
to a later version of the image that supports secure POAP. Then these devices can be reloaded and use the
secure POAP feature.
Troubleshooting Secure POAP
Perform the following steps to collect debugging information regarding secure POAP:
1. Set the debug option for IPv4 in option 43 to 1 and for IPv6 in option 17.
The debug option enables additional logs.
2. Allow the switch to run one cycle of POAP.
3. Abort POAP.
4. When the system boots up, run the show tech-support poap command.
This command displays POAP status and configuration.
Disabling POAP
POAP is enabled when there is no configuration in the system. It runs as a part of bootup. However, you can
bypass POAP enablement during initial setup. If you want to disable POAP permanently (even when there is
no configuration in the system), you can use the 'system no poap' command. This command ensures that POAP
is not started during the next boot (even if there is no configuration). To enable POAP, use the 'system poap'
command or the 'write erase poap' command. The 'write erase poap' command erases the POAP flag and
enables POAP.
• Example: Disabling POAP
switch# system no poap
switch# sh boot
Current Boot Variables:
sup-1
NXOS variable = bootflash:/nxos.9.2.1.125.bin
Boot POAP Disabled
POAP permanently disabled using 'system no poap'
Boot Variables on next reload:
sup-1
NXOS variable = bootflash:/nxos.9.2.1.125.bin
Boot POAP Disabled
POAP permanently disabled using 'system no poap'
switch# sh system poap
System-wide POAP is disabled using exec command 'system no poap'
POAP will be bypassed on write-erase reload.
(Perpetual POAP cannot be enabled when system-wide POAP is disabled)
• Example: Enabling POAP
32

POAP Configuration Script
switch# system poap
switch# sh system poap
System-wide POAP is enabled
• Example: Erase POAP
switch# write erase poap
This command will erase the system wide POAP disable flag only if it is set.
Do you wish to proceed anyway? (y/n) [n] y
System wide POAP disable flag erased.
switch# sh system poap
System-wide POAP is enabled
POAP Configuration Script
The reference script supplied by Cisco supports the following functionality:
• Retrieves the switch-specific identifier, for example, the serial number.
• Downloads the nx-os software image if the files do not already exist on the switch. The nx-os image is
installed on the switch and is used at the next reboot.
• Schedules the downloaded configuration to be applied at the next switch reboot.
• Stores the configuration as the startup configuration.
Cisco has sample configuration scripts that were developed using the Python programming language and Tool
Command Language (Tcl). You can customize one of these scripts to meet the requirements of your network
environment. You can access the Python script to perform POAP on the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switch at
this link: https://github.com/datacenter/nexus9000/tree/master/nx-os/poap.
The Python programming language uses two APIs that can execute CLI commands. These APIs are described
in the following table. The arguments for these APIs are strings of the CLI commands.
API Description
cli() Returns the raw output of CLI commands, including
the control/special characters.
clid() For CLI commands that support XML, this API puts
the command output in a Python dictionary.
This API can be useful to help search the output of
show commands.
POAP Configuration Script
We provide a sample configuration script that is developed using the Python programming language. We
recommend using the provided script and modifying it to meet the requirements of your network environment.
The POAP script can be found at https://github.com/datacenter/nexus9000/blob/master/nx-os/poap/poap.py.
33

Using the POAP Script and POAP Script Options
To modify the script using Python, see the Cisco NX-OS Python API Reference Guide for your platform.
Using the POAP Script and POAP Script Options
Before using the POAP script, perform the following actions:
1. Edit the options dictionary at the top of the script to ensure that all relevant options for your setup are
included in the script. Do not change the defaults (in the default options function) directly.
2. Update the MD5 checksum of the POAP script as shown using shell commands.
f=poap_nexus_script.py ; cat $f | sed '/^#md5sum/d' > $f.md5 ; sed -i
"s/^#md5sum=.*/#md5sum=\"$(md5sum $f.md5 | sed 's/ .*//')\"/" $f
3. If the device has a startup configuration, perform a write erase and reload the device.
The following POAP script options can be specified to alter the POAP script behavior. When you download
files from a server, the hostname, username, and password options are required. For every mode except
personality, the target_system_image is also required. Required parameters are enforced by the script, and
the script aborts if the required parameters are not present. Every option except hostname, username, and
password has a default option. If you do not specify the option in the options dictionary, the default is used.
• username
The username to use when downloading files from the server.
• password
The password to use when downloading files from the server.
• hostname
The name or address of the server from which to download files.
• mode
The default is serial_number.
Use one of the following options:
• personality
A method to restore the switch from a tarball.
• serial_number
The serial number of the switch to determine the configuration filename. The format for the serial
number in the configuration file is conf.serialnumber. Example: conf.FOC123456
• hostname
The hostname as received in the DHCP options to determine the configuration filename. The format
for the hostname in the configuration file is conf_hostname.cfg. Example: conf_3164-RS.cfg
• mac
The interface MAC address to determine the configuration filename. The format for the hostname
in the configuration file is conf_macaddress.cfg. Example: conf_7426CC5C9180.cfg
• raw
34

Using the POAP Script and POAP Script Options
The configuration filename is used exactly as provided in the options. The filename is not altered
in any way.
• location
The CDP neighbors are used to determine the configuration filename. The format for the location
in the configuration file is conf_host_intf.cfg, where host is the host connected to the device over
the POAP interface, and intf is the remote interface to which the POAP interface is connected.
Example: conf_remote-switch_Eth1_8.cfg
• required_space
The required space in KB for that particular iteration of POAP. The default is 100,000. For multi-step
upgrades, specify the size of the last image in the upgrade path of the target image.
• transfer_protocol
Any transfer protocol such as http, https, ftp, scp, sftp, or tftp that is supported by VSH. The default is
scp.
• config_path
The path to the configuration file on the server. Example: /tftpboot. The default is /var/lib/tftpboot.
• target_system_image
The name of the image to download from the remote server. This is the image you get after POAP
completes. This option is a required parameter for every mode except personality. The default is "".
• target_image_path
The path to the image on the server. Example: /tftpboot. The default is /var/lib/tftpboot.
• destination_path
The path to which to download images and MD5 sums. The default is /bootflash.
• destination_system_image
The name for the destination image filename. If not specified, the default will be the target_system_image
name.
• user_app_path
The path on the server where the user scripts, agents, and user data are located. The default is
/var/lib/tftpboot.
• disable_md5
This is True if MD5 checking should be disabled. The default is False.
• midway_system_image
The name of the image to use for the midway system upgrade. By default, the POAP script finds the
name of any required midway images in the upgrade path and uses them. Set this option if you prefer to
pick a different midway image for a two-step upgrade. The default is "".
• source_config_file
The name of the configuration file when raw mode is used. The default is poap.cfg.
35

Using the POAP Script and POAP Script Options
• vrf
The VRF to use for downloads and so on. The VRF is automatically set by the POAP process. The default
is the POAP_VRF environment variable.
• destination_config
The name to use for the downloaded configuration. The default is poap_replay.cfg.
• split_config_first
The name to use for the first configuration portion if the configuration needs to be split. It is applicable
only when the configuration requires a reload to take effect. The default is poap_1.cfg.
• split_config_second
The name to use for the second configuration portion if the configuration is split. The default is poap_2.cfg.
• timeout_config
The timeout in seconds for copying the configuration file. The default is 120. For non-legacy images,
this option is not used, and the POAP process times out. For legacy images, FTP uses this timeout for
the login process and not for the copy process, while scp and other protocols use this timeout for the
copy process.
• timeout_copy_system
The timeout in seconds for copying the system image. The default is 2100. For non-legacy images, this
option is not used, and the POAP process times out. For legacy images, FTP uses this timeout for the
login process and not for the copy process, while scp and other protocols use this timeout for the copy
process.
• timeout_copy_personality
The timeout in seconds for copying the personality tarball. The default is 900. For non-legacy images,
this option is not used, and the POAP process times out. For legacy images, FTP uses this timeout for
the login process and not for the copy process, while scp and other protocols use this timeout for the
copy process.
• timeout_copy_user
The timeout in seconds for copying any user scripts and agents. The default is 900. For non-legacy
images, this option is not used, and the POAP process times out. For legacy images, FTP uses this timeout
for the login process and not for the copy process, while scp and other protocols use this timeout for the
copy process.
• personality_path
The remote path from which to download the personality tarball. Once the tarball is downloaded and the
personality process is started, the personality will download all files in the future from locations specified
inside the tarball configuration. The default is /var/lib/tftpboot.
• source_tarball
The name of the personality tarball to download. The default is personality.tar.
• destination_tarball
The name for the downloaded personality tarball after it is downloaded. The default is personality.tar.
36

Setting up the DHCP Server without DNS for POAP
Setting up the DHCP Server without DNS for POAP
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I6(1), the tftp-server-name can be used without the DNS option.
To enable POAP functionality without DNS on earlier releases, a custom option of 150 must be used to specify
the tftp-server-address.
To use the tftp-server-address option, specify the following at the start of your dhcpd.conf file.
option tftp-server-address code 150 = ip-address;
For example:
host MyDevice {
option dhcp-client-identifier "\000SAL12345678";
fixed-address 2.1.1.10;
option routers 2.1.1.1;
option host-name "MyDevice";
option bootfile-name "poap_nexus_script.py";
option tftp-server-address 2.1.1.1;
}
The below example shows Configuring DHCPv6 for POAP over IPv6:
default-lease-time 3600;
max-lease-time 3600;
log-facility local7;
subnet6 2003::/64 {
# This statement configures actual values to be sent
# RTPREFIX option code = 243, RTPREFIX length = 22
# Ignore value 22. It is something related to option-size RT_PREFIX option length.
# lifetime = 9000 seconds
# route ETH1_IPV6_GW/64
# metric 1
option dhcp6.next-hop-rt-prefix 2003::2222 243 22 9000 0 1 ::;
#ipv6 ::/0 2003::2222
#Another example - support not there in NXOS - CSCvs05271:
#option dhcp6.next-hop-rt-prefix 2003::2222 243 22 9000 112 1 2003::1:2:3:4:5:0;
#ipv6 2003::1:2:3:4:5:0/112 2003::2222
# Additional options
#option dhcp6.name-servers fec0:0:0:1::1;
#option dhcp6.domain-search "domain.example";
range6 2003::b:1111 2003::b:9999;
#range6 2003::c:2222 2003::c:2222;
option dhcp6.bootfile-url "tftp://2003::1111/poap_github_v6.py";
Downloading and Using User Data, Agents, and Scripts as part of POAP
Under the options dictionary, you can find the download_scripts_and_agents function. If you choose to
download user scripts and data, uncomment the first poap_log line and then use a series of download_user_app
function calls to download each application. Since older Cisco NX-OS versions do not support recursive copy
of directories, such directories must be put into a tarball (TAR archive) and then unpacked once on the switch.
The parameters for the download_scripts_and_agents function are as follows:
• source_path - The path to where the file or tarball is located. This is a required parameter. Example:
/var/lib/tftpboot.
37

POAP Process
• source_file - The name of the file to download. This is a required parameter. Example: agents.tar,
script.py, and so on.
• dest_path - The location to download the file on the switch. Any directories that do not exist earlier will
be created. This is an optional parameter. The default is /bootflash.
• dest_file - The name to give the downloaded file. This is an optional parameter. The default is unchanged
source_file.
• unpack - Indicates whether a tarball exists for unpacking. Unpacking is done with tar -xf tarfile -C
/bootflash. This is an optional parameter. The default is False.
• delete_after_unpack - Indicates whether to delete the downloaded tarball after unpack is successful.
There is no effect if unpack is False. The default is False.
Using the download functionality, you can download all the agents and files needed to run POAP. To start
the agents, you should have the configuration present in the running configuration downloaded by POAP.
Then the agents, scheduler, and cron entry, along with EEM, can be used.
POAP Process
The POAP process has the following phases:
1. Power up
2. USB discovery
3. DHCP discovery
4. Script execution
5. Post-installation reload
Within these phases, other process and decision points occur. The following illustration shows a flow diagram
of the POAP process.
38

Power-Up Phase
Figure6:POAPProcess
Power-Up Phase
When you powerup the device for the first time, it loads the software image that is installed at manufacturing
and tries to find a configuration file from which to boot. When a configuration file is not found, POAP mode
starts.
During startup, a prompt appears asking if you want to abort POAP and continue with a normal setup. You
can choose to exit or continue with POAP.
Note No user intervention is required for POAP to continue. The prompt that asks if you want to abort POAP
remains available until the POAP process is complete.
39

USB Discovery Phase
If you exit POAP mode, you enter the normal interactive setup script. If you continue in POAP mode, all the
front-panel interfaces are set up in the default configuration.
USB Discovery Phase
When POAP starts, the process searches the root directory of all accessible USB devices for the POAP script
file (the Python script file, poap_script.py), configuration files, and system and kickstart images.
If the script file is found on a USB device, POAP begins running the script. If the script file is not found on
the USB device, POAP executes DHCP discovery. (When failures occur, the POAP process alternates between
USB discovery and DHCP discovery, until POAP succeeds or you manually abort the POAP process.)
If the software image and switch configuration files specified in the configuration script are present, POAP
uses those files to install the software and configure the switch. If the software image and switch configuration
files are not on the USB device, POAP does some cleanup and starts DHCP phase from the beginning.
DHCP Discovery Phase
The switch sends out DHCP discover messages on the front-panel interfaces or the MGMT interface that
solicit DHCP offers from the DHCP server or servers. (See the following figure.) The DHCP client on the
Cisco Nexus switch uses the switch serial number in the client-identifier option to identify itself to the DHCP
server. The DHCP server can use this identifier to send information, such as the IP address and script filename,
back to the DHCP client.
POAP requires a minimum DHCP lease period of 3600 seconds (1 hour). POAP checks the DHCP lease
period. If the DHCP lease period is set to less than 3600 seconds (1 hour), POAP does not complete the DHCP
negotiation.
The DHCP discover message also solicits the following options from the DHCP server:
• TFTP server name or TFTP server address—The DHCP server relays the TFTP server name or TFTP
server address to the DHCP client. The DHCP client uses this information to contact the TFTP server to
obtain the script file.
• Bootfile name—The DHCP server relays the bootfile name to the DHCP client. The bootfile name
includes the complete path to the bootfile on the TFTP server. The DHCP client uses this information
to download the script file.
When multiple DHCP offers that meet the requirement are received, the one arriving first is honored and the
POAP process moves to next stage. The device completes the DHCP negotiation (request and acknowledgment)
with the selected DHCP server, and the DHCP server assigns an IP address to the switch. If a failure occurs
in any of the subsequent steps in the POAP process, the IP address is released back to the DHCP server.
If no DHCP offers meet the requirements, the switch does not complete the DHCP negotiation (request and
acknowledgment) and an IP address is not assigned.
40

POAP Dynamic Breakout
Figure7:DHCPDiscoveryProcess
POAP Dynamic Breakout
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I4(1), POAP dynamically breaks out ports in an effort to detect
a DHCP server behind one of the broken-out ports. Previously, the DHCP server used for POAP had to be
directly connected to a normal cable because breakout cables were not supported.
POAP determines which breakout map (for example, 10gx4, 50gx2, 25gx4, or 10gx2) will bring up the link
connected to the DHCP server. If breakout is not supported on any of the ports, POAP skips the dynamic
breakout process. After the breakout loop completes, POAP proceeds with the DHCP discovery phase as
normal.
Note For more information on dynamic breakout, see the interfaces configuration guide for your device.
41

Script Execution Phase
Script Execution Phase
After the device bootstraps itself using the information in the DHCP acknowledgement, the script file is
downloaded from the TFTP server.
The switch runs the configuration script, which downloads and installs the software image and downloads a
switch-specific configuration file.
However, the configuration file is not applied to the switch at this point, because the software image that
currently runs on the switch might not support all of the commands in the configuration file. After the switch
reboots, it begins running the new software image, if an image was installed. At that point, the configuration
is applied to the switch.
Note If the switch loses connectivity, the script stops, and the switch reloads its original software images and bootup
variables.
Post-Installation Reload Phase
The switch restarts and applies (replays) the configuration on the upgraded software image. Afterward, the
switch copies the running configuration to the startup configuration.
POAPv3
PowerOn Auto Provisioning version 3 (POAPv3) is introduced in Cisco NX-OS Release 9.3(5). With this
feature you can install license, RPM, and certificate through POAP.
Perform the following steps to install license or RPM or certificate through POAP.
1. Create a folder on the POAP server with serial number of the box as the name.
2. Create .yaml or .yml file with files to be installed. Make sure the file name is in <serial-number>.yaml
or <serial-number>.yml format.
3. Create MD5 checksum for the .yaml or .yml file.
4. Make sure the format of the .yaml file should be similar to the below format:
Version : 1
Target-image : nxos.9.3.4.bin
Description : Yaml for box XYZ12345 poap provisioning. N9k Leaf mode box
License : [license1.lic, XYZ12345/license2.lic, folder1/license3.lic]
RPM :
- rpm1.rpm
- patches/reload/rpm2-reload.rpm
- rpm3.rpm
Certificate : [ssh1.pub, XYZ12345/ssh2key.pub]
42

POAPv3
Trustpoint :
CA1 :
cert_1.p12 : password1 (priv_key_passphrase)
XYZ12345/CA1/cert_2.pfx : password2
CA2 :
CA2/XYZ12345/cert_3.p12 : password3
5. Note that the yaml keywords must match the format shown in above example.
6. Place all files in appropriate path.
7. Update the POAP script with install_path variable as the path where folder with the serial number as name
is placed.
The following list provides the guidelines and limitations related to POAPv3:
• YAML is a human friendly data serialization standard for all programming languages. YAML stands
for YAML Ain't Markup Language, and this file format technology is used in documents. These documents
are saved in plain text format and are appended with the . yml extension. YAML is the file format and
.yml is the file extension.
• YAML is a superset of JSON and the YAML parser understands JSON. YAML file formats are used
for configuration management because it is easy to read and comments are useful.
• The Target_image mentioned in yaml should be kept only in the target_system_image path mentioned
within POAP script. Relative path is not supported for the Target_image in yaml file.
• Both .yaml and .yml extensions are supported. You have an option to choose to use any of these extensions.
If you don’t choose any option, the <serial>.yaml extension will be tried first and if it fails the <serial>.yml
is considered.
• The MD5 files of yaml/yml is required similar to the configuration file. But if the disable_md5 is ‘True’
then the MD5 files of yaml/yml are not required.
• Although 'install_path' is set in the POAP script file if no yaml file for device is found, then POAP
workflow will proceed with the legacy path, i.e., without any installation of RPMs, licenses and certificates.
• Install reset is highly preferred over write erase if PoAP with RPM installation is done in scenarios apart
from Day-0.
• ISSU is the new default for moving to new image via PoAP. Note that you need to use "use_nxos_boot":
True, if legacy boot nxos <> is required.
• The Filetype checks for .pfx,.p12 in trustpoints; .lic in license; and .rpm in rpms and aborts the current
POAP if the checks/fileformats are not honoured.
• In case of .rpm, you need to provide the original file name in the yaml file.
For example: if you renamed customCliGoApp-1.0-1.7.5.x86_64.rpm to custom.rpm then PoAP will
bail out indicating the name mismatch.
To get the original name of rpm:
bash-4.3$ rpm -qp --qf '%{NAME}-%{VERSION}-%{RELEASE}.%{ARCH}.rpm' custom.rpm
customCliGoApp-1.0-1.7.5.x86_64.rpm
bash-4.3$
43

Guidelines and Limitations for POAP
• Once ISSU via POAP begins, abort of PoAP will be blocked. If ISSU fails for some reason, then abort
capability will be re-enabled.
Guidelines and Limitations for POAP
POAP configuration guidelines and limitations are as follows:
• The bootflash:poap_retry_debugs.log is a file populated by POAP-PNP for internal purposes only. This
file has no relevance in case of any POAP failures.
• Due to limitations in Syslog, securePOAP pem file name characters length is limited to 230 characters,
though secure POAP supports 256 characters length for a pem file name.
• The switch software image must support POAP for this feature to function.
• POAP does not support provisioning of the switch after it has been configured and is operational. Only
auto-provisioning of a switch with no startup configuration is supported.
• The https_ignore_certificate option should be turned on to use the ignore-certificate keyword with
https protocol in POAP. This would enable you to successfully perform HTTPS transfer in the POAP
script and without this option https as protocol cannot work with POAP.
• For those who uses HTTP/HTTPS servers for Day 0 provisioning, provisioning instructions will be given
based on the MAC information and other related details in the HTTP header. POAP uses these details
from HTTP GET headers so that the correct provisioning script is identified and used. This was available
for other vendors (and other Cisco OSs).These additional information will be available in HTTP get
headers from Cisco NX-OS Release 10.2(1) for Cisco Nexus 9000. This feature will be available by
default for POAP and non-POAP HTTP get operations.
• When you use copy http/https GET commands, the following fields are shared as part of the HTTP
header:
Host: IP address
User-Agent: cisco-nxos
X-Vendor-SystemMAC: System MAC
X-Vendor-ModelName: Switch-Model
X-Vendor-Serial: Serial_Num
X-Vendor-HardwareVersion: Hardwareversion
X-Vendor-SoftwareVersion: sw_version
X-Vendor-Architecture: Architecture
• If you use POAP to bootstrap a Cisco Nexus device that is a part of a virtual port channel (vPC) pair
using static port channels on the vPC links, the Cisco Nexus device activates all of its links when POAP
starts up. The dually connected device at the end of the vPC links might start sending some or all of its
traffic to the port-channel member links that are connected to the Cisco Nexus device, which causes
traffic to get lost.
To work around this issue, you can configure Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) on the vPC
links so that the links do not incorrectly start forwarding traffic to the Cisco Nexus device that is being
bootstrapped using POAP.
• If you use POAP to bootstrap a Cisco Nexus device that is connected downstream to a Cisco Nexus 9000
Series switch through a LACP port channel, the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switch defaults to suspend its
member port if it cannot bundle it as a part of a port channel. To work around this issue, configure the
44

Guidelines and Limitations for POAP
Cisco Nexus 9000 Series switch to not suspend its member ports by using the no lacp suspend-individual
command from interface configuration mode.
• Important POAP updates are logged in the syslog and are available from the serial console.
• Critical POAP errors are logged to the bootflash. The filename format is
date-time_poap_PID_[init,1,2].log, where date-time is in the YYYYMMDD_hhmmss format and PID
is the process ID.
• You can bypass the password and the basic POAP configuration by using the skip option at the POAP
prompt. When you use the skip option, no password is configured for the admin user. The copy
running-config startup-config command is blocked until a valid password is set for the admin user.
• If the boot poap enable command (perpetual POAP) is enabled on the switch, on a reload, a POAP boot
is triggered even if there is a startup configuration present. If you do not want to use POAP in this scenario,
remove the boot poap enable configuration by using the no boot poap enable command.
• Script logs are saved in the bootflash directory. The filename format is date-time_poap_PID_script.log,
where date-time is in the YYYYMMDD_hhmmss format and PID is the process ID.
You can configure the format of the script log file. Script file log formats are specified in the script. The
template of the script log file has a default format; however, you can choose a different format for the
script execution log file.
• The POAP feature does not require a license and is enabled by default. However for the POAP feature
to function, appropriate licenses must be installed on the devices in the network before the deployment
of the network.
• POAP DHCP transaction may fail if the device receives high traffic rate. This issue happens when POAP
uses a front panel. To avoid this issue, make sure POAP uses a management port.
• Beginning with NX-OS 7.0(3)I7(4), RFC 3004 (User Class Option for DHCP) is supported. This enables
POAP to support user-class option 77 for DHCPv4 and user-class option 15 for DHCPv6. The text
displayed for the user class option for both DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 is "Cisco-POAP".
• With RFC 3004 (User Class Option for DHCP) support, POAP over IPv6 is supported on Nexus
9000 switches.
• Beginning with NX-OS 9.2(2), POAP over IPv6 is supported on Nexus 9504 and Nexus 9508
switches with –R line cards.
The POAP over IPv6 feature enables the POAP process to use IPv6 when IPv4 fails. The feature
is designed to cycle between IPv4 and IPv6 protocols when a connection failure occurs.
• For secure POAP, ensure that DHCP snooping is enabled.
• To support POAP, set firewall rules to block unintended or malicious DHCP servers.
• To maintain system security and make POAP more secure, configure the following:
• Enable DHCP snooping.
• Set firewall rules to block unintended or malicious DHCP servers.
• POAP is supported on both MGMT ports and in-band ports.
• Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.2(3)F, the Hardware SUDI for POAP/HTTPS feature provides
an option to securely download the POAP script.
45

Setting Up the Network Environment to Use POAP
• To collect the debugging information on POAP, use the show tech-support poap command, post abort
of POAP.
• Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.3(1)F, POAP is supported on Cisco Nexus X9836DM-A line
card of the Cisco Nexus 9808 platform switches.
• Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.4(1)F, POAP is supported on Cisco Nexus X98900CD-A
line card of Cisco Nexus 9808 switches.
• Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.4(1)F, POAP is supported on Cisco Nexus 9804 platform
switches, and Cisco Nexus X98900CD-A and X9836DM-A line cards.
• Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.4(3)F, for the security enhancements, the skip option is disabled.
You must enter a valid password to access the box irrespective of whether the POAP process is stopped
or not.
Setting Up the Network Environment to Use POAP
Procedure
Step 1 Modify the basic configuration script provided by Cisco or create your own script. For information, see the Python
Scripting and API Configuration Guide.
Step 2 Every time you make a change to the configuration script, ensure that you recalculate the MD5 checksum by running #
f=poap_nexus_script.py ; cat $f | sed '/^#md5sum/d' > $f.md5 ; sed -i "s/^#md5sum=.*/#md5sum=\"$(md5sum
$f.md5 | sed 's/ .*//')\"/" $f using a bash shell. For more information, see the Python API Reference Guide.
Step 3 (Optional) Put the POAP script and any other desired software image and switch configuration files on a USB device
accessible to the switch.
Step 4 Deploy a DHCP server and configure it with the interface, gateway, and TFTP server IP addresses and a bootfile with
the path and name of the configuration script file. (This information is provided to the switch when it first boots.) You
do not need to deploy a DHCP server if all software image and switch configuration files are on the USB device.
Step 5 Deploy a TFTP or HTTP server to host the configuration script. In order to trigger the HTTP request to the server, prefix
HTTP:// to the TFTP server name. HTTPS is not supported.
Step 6 Add the URL portion into the TFTP script name to show correct path to the file name.
Step 7 Deploy one or more servers to host the software images and configuration files.
Configuring a Switch Using POAP
Before you begin
Make sure that the network environment is set up to use POAP.
46

Creating md5 Files
Procedure
Step 1 Install the switch in the network.
Step 2 Power on the switch.
If no configuration file is found, the switch boots in POAP mode and displays a prompt that asks if you want to abort
POAP and continue with a normal setup.
No entry is required to continue to boot in POAP mode.
Step 3 (Optional) If you want to exit POAP mode and enter the normal interactive setup script, enter y (yes).
The switch boots, and the POAP process begins.
What to do next
Verify the configuration.
Creating md5 Files
Every time you make a change to the configuration script, ensure that you recalculate the MD5 checksum by
running # f=poap_fabric.py ; cat $f | sed '/^#md5sum/d' > $f.md5 ; sed -i
"s/^#md5sum=.*/#md5sum=\"$(md5sum $f.md5 | sed 's/ .*//')\"/" $f using a bash shell.
This procedure replaces md5sum in poap_fabric.py with a new value if there was any change in that
file.
Note Steps 1-4 and 7-8 are needed only if you are using the BASH shell. If you have access to any other Linux
server, these steps are not required.
Before you begin
Access to the BASH shell.
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 feature bash-shell Enable BASH shell feature.
Example:
47

Creating md5 Files
switch(config)# feature bash-shell
Step 3 exit Exit configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
Step 4 run bash Open Linux BASH.
Example:
switch# run bash
Step 5 md5sum /bootflash/nxos.release_number.bin > Creates md5sum for the .bin file.
/bootflash/nxos.release_number.bin.md5
Example:
bash-4.2$ md5sum /bootflash/nxos.7.0.3.I6.1.bin >
/bootflash/nxos.7.0.3.I6.1.bin.md5
Step 6 md5sum /bootflash/poap.cfg > /bootflash/poap.cfg.md5 Creates md5sum for the .cfg file.
Example:
bash-4.2$ md5sum /bootflash/poap.cfg >
/bootflash/poap.cfg.md5
Step 7 exit Exit the BASH shell.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
Step 8 dir | i .md5 Display the .md5 files.
Example:
switch# dir | i .md5
65 Jun 09 12:38:48 2017
nxos.7.0.3.I6.1.bin.md5
54 Jun 09 12:39:36 2017 poap.cfg.md5
67299 Jun 09 12:48:58 2017 poap.py.md5
Step 9 copy bootflash:poap.cfg.md5 scp://ip_address/ Uploads the files to the Configuration and Software Server.
Example:
copy bootflash:poap.cfg.md5 scp://10.1.100.3/
Enter vrf (If no input, current vrf 'default' is
considered): management
Enter username: root
root@10.1.100.3's password:
poap.cfg.md5 100%
54 0.1KB/s 00:00
Copy complete.
48

Verifying the Device Configuration
Verifying the Device Configuration
To verify the configuration, use one of the following commands:
Command Purpose
show running-config [ Displays the contents of the currently running configuration or a subset of that
[exclude] command ] configuration, use the show running-config command in the appropriate mode.
[sanitized] :
• exclude: (Optional) Excludes a specific configuration from the display.
Use the exclude keyword followed by a command argument to exclude a
specific configuration from the display.
• command: (Optional) Displays only a single command or a subset of
commands available under a specified command mode.
• sanitized: (Optional) Displays a sanitized configuration for safe
distribution and analysis.
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.3(2)F, sanitized keyword is
supported on Cisco Nexus 9000 series switches.
show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Note
If Layer 3 based feature configurations are disabled in the running-config, the
show startup-config command does not display them. However, the
configurations remain intact in the startup PSS, until the copy running startup
command is performed.
show time-stamp Displays the timestamp when the running configuration was last changed.
running-config
last-changed
The following example shows sample output of show running-config command with the sanitized keyword.
The sanitized configuration is used to share a configuration without exposing some configuration details.
This option masks the sensitive words in running configuration output with <removed> keyword.
switch# show running-config sanitized
!Command: show running-config sanitized
!Running configuration last done at: Wed Oct 12 09:14:54 2022
!Time: Wed Oct 12 13:52:55 2022
version 10.3(2) Bios:version 07.69
username admin password 5 <removed> role network-admin
copp profile strict
snmp-server user admin network-admin auth md5 <removed> priv aes-128 <removed> localizedV2key
rmon event 1 log trap <removed> description FATAL(1) owner PMON@FATAL
rmon event 2 log trap <removed> description CRITICAL(2) owner PMON@CRITICAL
rmon event 3 log trap <removed> description ERROR(3) owner PMON@ERROR
49

Troubleshooting for POAP
rmon event 4 log trap <removed> description WARNING(4) owner PMON@WARNING
rmon event 5 log trap <removed> description INFORMATION(5) owner PMON@INFO
--More--
Troubleshooting for POAP
The following is a list of known issues and suggestions while using POAP:
• Issue: POAP script execution fails immediately with no syslogs or output except for a "Script execution
failed" statement.
Suggestion: Use the python script-name command on the server and make sure there are no syntax
errors. The options dictionary is a Python dictionary so each entry must be comma separated and have
the key or option and the value separated by a colon.
• Issue: A TypeError exception occurs at various places depending on the incorrectly used option.
Suggestion: Some options use integers (for example, timeouts and other numeric values). Check the
options dictionary for numeric values that are enclosed in quotes. Refer to the options list for the correct
usage.
• Issue: POAP over USB is not finding the files that are present.
Suggestion: Some devices have two USB slots. If you are using USB slot 2, you need to specify that as
an option.
• Issue: Any issue with POAP.
Suggestion: Abort POAP, and when the system boots up, run the show tech-support poap command,
which displays POAP status and configuration.
Managing the POAP Personality
POAP Personality
The POAP personality feature, which is introduced in Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I4(1), enables user data,
Cisco NX-OS and third-party patches, and configuration files to be backed up and restored. In previous
releases, POAP can restore only the configuration.
The POAP personality is defined by tracked files on the switch. The configuration and package list in the
personality file are ASCII files.
Binary versions are recorded in the personality file, but the actual binary files are not included. Because binary
files are typically large, they are accessed from a specified repository.
The personality file is a .tar file, which would typically be extracted into a temporary folder. Here is an
example:
switch# dir bootflash: 042516182843personality # timestamp name
46985 Dec 06 23:12:56 2015 running-config Same as “show running-configuration” command.
20512 Dec 06 23:12:56 2015 host-package-list Package/Patches list
58056 Dec 06 23:12:56 2015 data.tar User Data
25 Dec 06 23:12:56 2015 IMAGEFILE Tracked image metadata
50

Backing Up the POAP Personality
Backing Up the POAP Personality
You can create a backup of the POAP personality either locally on the switch or remotely on the server. The
personality backup taken from the switch should be restored only on a switch of the same model.
Note If you are using the Cisco scheduler feature for backups, you can configure it to also back up the POAP
personality, as shown in the following example. For more information on the scheduler, see the Cisco Nexus
9000 Series NX-OS System Management Configuration Guide.
switch(config)# scheduler schedule name weeklybkup
switch(config-schedule)# time weekly mon:07:00
switch(config-schedule)# job name personalitybkup
switch(config-schedule)# exit
switch(config)# scheduler job name personalitybkup
switch(config-job)# personality backup bootflash:/personality-file ; copy
bootflash:/personality-file tftp://10.1.1.1/ vrf management
SUMMARY STEPS
1. personality backup [bootflash:uri | scp:uri]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 Required: personality backup [bootflash:uri | scp:uri] Creates a backup of the POAP personality.
Example:
switch# personality backup
bootflash:personality1.tar
Example:
switch# personality backup
scp://root@2.1.1.1/var/lib/tftpboot/backup.tar
Configuring the POAP Personality
You can specify whether the POAP personality should be derived from the running state of the system or the
committed (startup) state.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. personality
3. track [running-state | startup-state | data local-directories-or-files]
4. binary-location source-uri-folder
51

Configuring the POAP Personality
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 Required: configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 Required: personality Enters personality configuration mode.
Example:
switch# personality
switch(config-personality)#
Step 3 Required: track [running-state | startup-state | data Specifies how the POAP personality is derived. The
local-directories-or-files] following options are available:
Example: • running-state—Captures the following information:
the running configuration (as shown in the show
switch(config-personality)# track data
bootflash:myfile1 running-config command), active Cisco NX-OS
patches and third-party packages in the host system,
Example:
and the image name (as shown in the show version
switch(config-personality)# track data
command). This is the default option.
bootflash:user_scripts/*.py
Example: • startup-state—Captures the following information:
the startup configuration (as shown in the show
switch(config-personality)# track data
startup-config command), committed Cisco NX-OS
bootflash:basedir/*/backup_data
patches and third-party packages in the host system,
and the image name (as shown in the show version
command).
• data local-directories-or-files—Specifies a directory
or file to be backed up. You can enter this command
multiple times to back up multiple directories and files.
UNIX-style wildcard characters are supported. In the
example, one folder and two directories are specified.
Note
Do not use this command to backup binary files in the
bootflash and do not point to the entire bootflash.
Note
Guest Shell packages are not tracked.
Note
Signed RPMs (which require a key) are not supported. The
POAP personality feature does not work with signed RPMs.
52

Restoring the POAP Personality
Step 4 Required: binary-location source-uri-folder Specifies the local or remote directory from which to pick
up binary files when the POAP personality is restored. You
Example:
can enter this command multiple times (in order of priority)
switch(config-personality)# binary-location to specify multiple locations.
scp://remote-dir1/nxos_patches/
Restoring the POAP Personality
During the POAP script execution phase, the personality module in the script restores the POAP personality,
provided that the currently booted switch image is Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I4(1) or later. If necessary,
upgrade the switch to the correct software image.
Note A personality restore is done with the same software image used for the personality backup. Upgrading to a
newer image is not supported through the POAP personality feature. To upgrade to a newer image, use the
regular POAP script.
Note If the personality script fails to execute for any reason (such as not enough space in the bootflash or a script
execution failure), the POAP process returns to the DHCP discovery phase.
The restore process performs the following actions:
1. Untars and unzips the personality file in the bootflash.
2. Validates the personality file.
3. Reads the configuration and package list files from the personality file to make a list of the binaries to be
downloaded.
4. If the current image or patches are not the same as specified in the personality file, downloads the binaries
to the bootflash (if not present) and reboots with the correct image and then applies the packages or patches.
5. Unzips or untars the user data files relative to "/".
6. Copies the configuration file in the POAP personality to the startup configuration.
7. Reboots the switch.
POAP Personality Sample Script
The following sample POAP script (poap.py) includes the personality feature:
#md5sum="b00a7fffb305d13a1e02cd0d342afca3"
# The above is the (embedded) md5sum of this file taken without this line, # can be # created
this way:
# f=poap.py ; cat $f | sed '/^#md5sum/d' > $f.md5 ; sed -i "s/^#md5sum=.*/#md5sum=$(md5sum
$f.md5 | sed 's/ .*//')/" $f # This way this script's integrity can be checked in case you
do not trust # tftp's ip checksum. This integrity check is done by /isan/bin/poap.bin).
# The integrity of the files downloaded later (images, config) is checked # by downloading
53

POAP Personality Sample Script
the corresponding file with the .md5 extension and is # done by this script itself.
from poap.personality import POAPPersonality import os
# Location to download system image files, checksums, etc.
download_path = "/var/lib/tftpboot"
# The path to the personality tarball used for restoration personality_tarball =
"/var/lib/tftpboot/foo.tar"
# The protocol to use to download images/config protocol = "scp"
# The username to download images, the personality tarball, and the # patches and RPMs
during restoration username = "root"
# The password for the above username
password = "passwd754"
# The hostname or IP address of the file server server = "2.1.1.1"
# The VRF to use for downloading and restoration vrf = "default"
if os.environ.has_key('POAP_VRF'):
vrf = os.environ['POAP_VRF']
# Initialize housekeeping stuff (logs, temp dirs, etc.) p = POAPPersonality(download_path,
personality_tarball, protocol, username, password, server, vrf)
p.get_personality()
p.apply_personality()
sys.exit(0)
54

5
This chapter contains these sections:
• About Network Plug and Play, on page 55
• Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play, on page 63
About Network Plug and Play
Network Plug and Play (PnP) is a software application that runs on a Cisco Nexus 9500 Series Switch
(specifically, N9K-C9504, N9K-C9508, and N9K-C9516). The PnP feature provides a simple, secure, unified,
and integrated offering to make a new branch or campus rollouts much easier, or for provisioning updates to
an existing or a new network. This feature provides a unified approach to provision networks comprising
multiple devices with a near-zero-touch deployment experience.
Simplified deployment reduces the cost and complexity and increases the speed and security of the deployments.
The PnP feature helps simplify the deployment of any Cisco device by automating the following
deployment-related operational tasks:
• Establishing initial network connectivity for a device.
• Delivering device configuration to the controller.
• Delivering software and firmware images to the controller.
• Provisioning local credentials of a switch.
• Notifying other management systems about deployment-related events.
The PnP is a client-server based model. The client (agent) runs on a Cisco Nexus 9500 Series Switch and the
server (controller) runs on the Cisco DNA Controller.
PnP uses a secure connection to communicate between the agent and the controller. This communication is
encrypted.
For information on configuring and managing the needed security certificate(s) for PnP functionality, see the
Cisco Digital Network Architecture Center Security Best Practices Guide.
The PnP agent converge solutions that exist in a network into a unified agent and adds additional functionality
to enhance the current solutions. The main objectives of the PnP agent is to provide consistent Day 0 deployment
solution for all the deployment scenarios.
55

About Network Plug and Play
Features Provided by the Network Plug and Play (PnP) Agent
Day 0 Provisioning
Day 0 bootstrapping includes the configuration, image, and other files. When a device is powered on for the
first time, the PnP discovery process, which is embedded in the device, gets enabled in the absence of a startup
configuration file and attempts to discover the address of the PnP controller or server. The PnP agent uses
methods such as DHCP, Domain Name System (DNS), and others to acquire the desired IP address of the
PnP server.
When the PnP agent successfully acquires the IP address, it initiates a long-term, bidirectional Layer 3
connection with the server and waits for a message from the server. The PnP server application sends messages
to the corresponding agent, requesting for information about the devices and the services to be performed on
the device.
The agent running on the Cisco Nexus 9500 Series switch then configures the IP address on receiving the
DHCP acknowledgment and establishes a secure channel with the controller to provision the configurations.
The switch then upgrades the image and applies the configurations.
Discovery Methods
A PnP agent discovers the PnP controller or server using one of the following methods:
• DHCP-based discovery
• DNS-based discovery
• PnP connect
After the discovery, the PnP agent writes the discovered information into a file, which is then used to handshake
with the PnP server (DNA controller/DNA-C).
The following tasks are carried out by the agent in the PnP discovery phase:
• Brings up all the interfaces.
• Sends a DHCP request in parallel for all the interfaces.
• On receiving a DHCP reply, configures the IP address and mask, default route, DNS server, domain
name, and writes the PnP server IP in a lease-parsing file. Note that there is no DHCP client in Cisco
Nexus Switches and static configuration is required.
• Brings down all the interfaces.
Note POAP is the first order of choice for Day 0 provisioning. Only when there is no valid POAP offer, PnP
discovery is attempted. Also, PnP is supported only on Cisco Nexus 9000 EoR models N9K-C9504,
N9K-C9508, and N9K-C9516. PnP is not supported on Cisco Nexus 9000 ToRs.
DHCP-Based Discovery
When the switch is powered on and if there is no startup configuration, the PnP starts with DHCP discovery.
DHCP discovery obtains the PnP server connectivity details.
The PnP agent configures the following:
• IP address
• Netmask
• Default gateway
• DNS server
56

About Network Plug and Play
• Domain name
If the agent configuration fails, you should manually intervene and configure the switch.
DHCP discovery has the following flow:
• Power on the switch.
• Switch will boot up, the PnP process will be started, as there is no configuration present.
• Start DHCP discovery.
• DHCP Server replies with the PnP server configuration.
• PnP agent handshakes with the PnP server.
• Download the image, install, and reload.
• Download and apply the configuration from the controller.
A device with no startup configuration in the NV-RAM triggers the day 0 provisioning and goes through the
POAP process (as detailed in m_using_poweron_auto_provisioning_92x.ditamap#id_70221). When there is
no valid POAP offer, the PnP agent is initiated. The DHCP server can be configured to insert additional
information using vendor-specific Option 43. Upon receiving Option 60 from the device with the string (cisco
pnp), to pass on the IP address or hostname of the PnP server to the requesting device. When the DHCP
response is received by the device, the PnP agent extracts the Option 43 from the response to get the IP address
or the hostname of the PnP server. The PnP agent then uses this IP address or hostname to communicate with
the PnP server.
Figure8:DHCPDiscoveryProcessforPnPServer
DNS-Based Discovery
When the DHCP discovery fails to get the PnP server, the agent falls back to DNS-based discovery. To start
the DNS-based discovery, the following information is required from DHCP:
• IP address and netmask
• Default gateway
57

About Network Plug and Play
• DNS server IP
• Domain name
The agent obtains the domain name of the customer network from the DHCP response and constructs the
fully qualified domain name (FQDN). The following FQDN is constructed by the PnP agent using a preset
deployment server name and the domain name information for the DHCP response. The agent then looks up
the local name server and tries to resolve the IP address for the above FQDN.
Figure9:DNSLookupforpnpserver.[domainname].com
Note The device reads domain name and creates predefined PnP server name as pnpserver.[domain name].com,
for example; pnpserver.cisco.com.
Plug and Play Connect
When the DHCP and the DNS discovery fail, the PnP agent discovers and communicates with Cisco
Cloud-based deployment service for initial deployment. The PnP agent directly opens an HTTPS channel
using the Python library, which internally invokes OpenSSL to talk with cloud for configuration.
Cisco Power On Auto Provisioning
Cisco Power On Auto Provisioning (PoAP) communicates with the DHCP and TFTP servers to download
the image and configurations. With the introduction of the PnP feature, PnP and PoAP coexist together in a
Cisco Nexus 9500 Series Switch. PoAP and PnP interworking has the following processes:
58

About Network Plug and Play
• PoAP starts first when no start-up configuration is present in the system.
• PnP starts later if PoAP does not get provisioned.
• PoAP and PnP discover the controller alternatively.
• The controller discovery process continues until a controller or until the admin aborts auto provision.
• The process (POAP or PnP) that finds the controller continues provisioning and the other process that
does not find the controller is notified and eventually terminated.
Services and Capabilities of the Network Plug and Play Agent
The PnP agent performs the following tasks:
• Backoff
• Capability
• CLI execution
• Configuration upgrade
• Device information
• Certificate install
• Image install
• Redirection
Note The PnP controller or server provides an optional checksum tag to be used in the image installation and
configuration upgrade service requests by the PnP agent. When the checksum is provided in a request, the
image install process compares the checksum against the current running image checksum.
If the checksums are same, the image being installed or upgraded is the same as the current image running
on the device. The image install process will not perform any other operation in this scenario.
If the checksums are not the same, the new image will be copied to the local file system, and the checksum
will be calculated again and compared with the checksum provided in the request. If they are the same, the
image install process continues to install the new image or upgrade the device to the new image. If the
checksums are not the same, the process exits with an error.
Backoff
A Cisco NX-OS device that supports PnP protocol, which uses HTTP transport, requires the PnP agent to
send the work request to the PnP server continuously. If the PnP server does not have any scheduled or
outstanding PnP service for the PnP agent to execute, the continuous no-operation work requests exhaust both
the network bandwidth and the device resources. This PnP backoff service allows the PnP server to inform
the PnP agent to rest for the specified time and call back later.
Capability
Capability service request is sent by the PnP server to the PnP agent on a device to query the supported services
by the agent. The server then sends an inventory service request to query the device's inventory information;
and then sends an image installation request to download an image and install it. After getting the response
from the agent, the list of supported PnP services and features are enlisted and returned back to the Server.
CLI Execution
Cisco NX-OS supports two modes of command execution, privileged EXEC mode and global configuration
mode. Most of the EXEC commands are one-time commands, such as show commands, which show the
current configuration status, and clear commands, which clear counters or interfaces. The EXEC commands
59

About Network Plug and Play
are not saved when a device reboots. Configuration mode commands allow user to make changes to the running
configuration. If you save the configuration, these commands are saved when a device reboots.
Configuration Upgrade
Two types of configuration upgrades takes place in a Cisco device—copying new configuration files to the
startup configuration and copying new configuration files to the running configuration.
Copying new configuration files to the startup configuration—A new configuration file is copied from the
file server to the device using the copy command, and the file check task is performed to check the validity
of the file. If the file is valid, the file is copied to the startup configuration. The previous configuration file is
backed up if enough disk space is available. The new configuration comes into effect when the device reloads
again.
Copying new configuration files to the running configuration—A new configuration file is copied from the
file server to the device using the copy command or configure replace command. Replace and rollback of
configuration files may leave the system in an unstable state if rollback is performed inefficiently. Therefore,
configuration upgrade by copying the files is preferred.
Device Information
The PnP agent provides the capability to extract device inventory and other important information to the PnP
server on request. The following device-profile request types are supported:
• all—Returns complete inventory information, which includes unique device identifier (UDI), image,
hardware, and file system inventory data.
• filesystem—Returns file system inventory information, which includes file system name and type, local
size (in bytes), free size (in bytes), read flag, and write flag.
• hardware—Returns hardware inventory information, which includes hostname, vendor string, platform
name, processor type, hardware revision, main memory size, I/O memory size, board ID, board rework
ID, processor revision, mid-plane revision, and location.
• image—Returns image inventory information, which includes version string, image name, boot variable,
return to ROMMON reason, bootloader variable, configuration register, configuration register on next
boot, and configuration variables.
• UDI—Returns the device UDI.
Certificate Install
Certificate install is a security service through which a PnP server requests the PnP agent on a device for trust
pool or trust point certificate installation or uninstallation. This service also specifies the agent about the
primary and backup servers for reconnection. The following prerequisites are required for a successful certificate
installation:
• The server from which the certificate or trust pool bundle needs to be downloaded should be reachable.
• There should not be any permission issues to download the certificate or the bundle.
• The PKI API should be available and accessible for the PnP agent so that the agent could call to download
and install the certificate or the bundle.
• There is enough memory on the device to save the downloaded certificate or bundle.
PnP Agent
The PnP agent is an embedded software component that is present in all Cisco network devices that support
simplified deployment architecture. The PnP agent understands and interacts only with a PnP server. The PnP
agent first tries to discover a PnP server, with which it can communicate. After a server is found and connection
established, the agent performs deployment-related activities such as configuration, image and file updates
60

About Network Plug and Play
by communicating with the server. It also notifies the server of all interesting deployment-related events such
as out-of-band configuration changes and new device connections on an interface.
PnP Server
The PnP server is a central server that encodes the logic of managing and distributing deployment information
(images, configurations, files, and licenses) for the devices being deployed. The server communicates with
the agent on the device that supports the simplified deployment process using a specific deployment protocol.
Figure10:SimplifiedDeploymentServer
The PnP server also communicates with proxy servers such as deployment applications on smart phones and
PCs, or other PnP agents acting as Neighbor Assisted Provisioning Protocol (NAPP) servers, and other types
of proxy deployment servers such as VPN gateways.
The PnP server can redirect the PnP agent to another deployment server. A common example of redirection
is a PnP server redirecting a device to communicate with it directly after sending the bootstrap configuration
through a NAPP server. A PnP server can be hosted by an enterprise. This solution allows for a cloud-based
deployment service provided by Cisco. In this case, a device discovers and communicates with Cisco
cloud-based deployment service for initial deployment. After that, it can be redirected to the customer's
deployment server.
In addition to communicating with the devices, the server interfaces with a variety of external systems such
as authentication, authorizing, and accounting (AAA) systems, provisioning systems, and other management
applications.
PnP Agent Deployment
The following steps indicate the PnP agent deployment procedure on Cisco devices:
1. A Cisco device with a PnP agent contacts the PnP server, requesting for a task, that is, the PnP agent sends
UDI along with a request for work.
2. If the PnP server has a task for the device, for example, image installation, configuration, upgrade, and
so on, it sends a work request.
3. After the PnP agent receives the work request, it executes the task and sends back a reply to the PnP server
about the task status, that is whether it is successful or if an error has occurred, and the corresponding
information that is requested.
PnP Agent Network Topology
61

Guidelines and Limitations for Network Plug and Play
Figure11:NetworkTopologyofCiscoPnPAgentDeployment
PnP Agent Initialization
The PnP agent is enabled by default, but can be initiated on a device when the startup configuration is not
available.
Absence of Startup Configuration
New Cisco devices are shipped to customers with no startup configuration file in the NVRAM of the devices.
When a new device is connected to a network and powered on, the absence of a startup configuration file on
the device automatically triggers the PnP agent to discover the PnP server IP address.
CLI Configuration for the PnP Agent
PnP supports devices that are using VLAN 1 by default.
Guidelines and Limitations for Network Plug and Play
Network Plug and Play (PnP) guidelines and limitations are as follows:
• Beginning with NX-OS 9.2(3), PnP is supported on the management port of Cisco Nexus 9500 platform
switches.
• PnP runs on both the in-band and the management interfaces. In-band is supported only on FX-series
line cards (specifically N9K-X9736C-FX for PnP).
• The PnP deployment method depends on the discovery process that is required for finding the PnP
controller or server.
• The discovery mechanism must be deployed, either as a DHCP server discovery process or a Domain
Name Server (DNS) discovery process, before launching PnP.
62

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
• Configure the DHCP server or the DNS server before deploying PnP.
• The PnP server must communicate with the PnP agent.
• PnP connect does not require a DHCP or DNS configuration.
• IPv6 support for PnP is not available for Cisco Nexus 9500 Series devices.
Cisco DNA Center Support
The following guidelines and limitations are specific for PnP connectivity to the Cisco DNA Center:
• Cisco DNA Center supports the following functionality on the Cisco Nexus 9504, Cisco Nexus 9508,
and Cisco Nexus 9516 switches:
• Discovery
• Inventory
• Topology
• Template Programmer
• Software Image Management
• Basic Monitoring
• The following PnP guidelines and limitations are only for the Cisco DNA Center version 1.2.6 and earlier:
• The startup configuration that is provided during plug and play must ensure that the connectivity
for the interface that is connected to the Cisco DNA Center remains intact.
• The system image .bin and startup configuration must be uploaded to the Cisco DNA Center.
• The bootflash must have enough space to download the image and configurations from the Cisco
DNA Center.
Click here for the user documentation for the Cisco DNA Center.
Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
Example: Troubleshooting PnP
The following examples shows the PnP troubleshooting command outputs:
Switch# show pnp status
PnP Agent is running
server-connection
status: Success
time: 08:41:26 Jan 11
interface-info
status: Success
time: 08:34:00 Jan 11
device-info
status: Success
time: 08:33:46 Jan 11
config-upgrade
status: Success
63

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
time: 08:31:36 Jan 11
capability
status: Success
time: 08:33:50 Jan 11
backoff
status: Success
time: 08:41:26 Jan 11
topology
status: Success
time: 08:33:54 Jan 11
Switch# show pnp version
PnP Agent Version Summary
PnP Agent: 1.6.0
Platform Name: nxos
PnP Platform: 1.5.0.rc2
Switch# show pnp profiles
Created by UDI
DHCP Discovery PID:N9K-C9504,VID:V01,SN:FOX1813GCZ8
Primary transport: https
Address: 10.105.194.248
Port: 443
CA file: /etc/pnp/certs/trustpoint/pnplabel
Work-Request Tracking:
Pending-WR: Correlator=
Cisco-PnP-POSIX-nxos-1.6.0-21-589a466a-0d88-427b-a17e-69afb7d0a226-1
Last-WR: Correlator=
Cisco-PnP-POSIX-nxos-1.6.0-20-ab225de4-b0ef-46c5-9c4f-e3bd9f7c6b87-1
PnP Response Tracking:
Last-PR: Correlator=
Cisco-PnP-POSIX-nxos-1.6.0-20-ab225de4-b0ef-46c5-9c4f-e3bd9f7c6b87-1
Switch# show pnp lease
{
"lease": {
"uptime": "Fri Jan 11 05:32:17 2019",
"intf": "Vlan1",
"ip_addr": "10.77.143.239",
"mask": "255.255.255.0",
"gw": "10.77.143.1",
"domain": "",
"opt_43": "5A1D;B2;K4;I10.105.194.248;J80",
"lease": "3600",
"server": "10.77.143.231",
"vrf": "1"
}
}
Switch# show pnp internal trace
1) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 907122 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: ascii gen completed rcode[0]
2) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 907094 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] pss type: 5
3) Event:E_DEBUG, length:31, at 907069 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] Entering pnp_ascii_gen_cfg
64

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
4) Event:E_DEBUG, length:22, at 907061 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] Calling Ascii gen
5) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 907051 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] pss type: 2
6) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 907018 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:30:44 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: fu_num_acfg_pss_entries[0x2]
7) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 973813 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: ascii gen completed rcode[0]
8) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 973787 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] pss type: 5
9) Event:E_DEBUG, length:31, at 973760 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] Entering pnp_ascii_gen_cfg
10) Event:E_DEBUG, length:22, at 973751 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] Calling Ascii gen
11) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 973742 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] pss type: 2
12) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 973707 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:29:51 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: fu_num_acfg_pss_entries[0x2]
13) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 535794 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:04:15 2019
[104] pnp_pi_spawn_finalize pid 690
14) Event:E_DEBUG, length:41, at 228291 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:04:13 2019
[104] + pnp_pi_spawn child_pid: 0xdd526da0
15) Event:E_DEBUG, length:76, at 132853 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:26 2019
[104] Rx: Direction: PnP PI -> PnP PD, Type: Device Provisioned, Cfg: Present
16) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 440380 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[104] !!! ACKED Unconfigure Ret:1!!!
17) Event:E_DEBUG, length:61, at 440347 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[104] Tx: Direction: Max, Type: DHCP Unconfigure Done, Len: 16
18) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 440331 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[102] Unknown timer cancel requested
19) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 440311 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
20) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 440103 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
21) Event:E_DEBUG, length:23, at 440051 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:18 2019
[104] - pnp_vsh_halt:206
22) Event:E_DEBUG, length:17, at 950291 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Adding "end"
23) Event:E_DEBUG, length:58, at 950269 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Adding "configure terminal ; no clock protocol none "
24) Event:E_DEBUG, length:33, at 945994 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] - pnp_vsh_config_l3_intf:788
65

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
25) Event:E_DEBUG, length:29, at 945979 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] + pnp_vsh_config_l3_intf
26) Event:E_DEBUG, length:39, at 945963 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Adding "no feature interface-vlan"
27) Event:E_DEBUG, length:32, at 945932 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Adding "configure terminal"
28) Event:E_DEBUG, length:40, at 945886 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Got Semaphore, vsh halt continue...
29) Event:E_DEBUG, length:46, at 945870 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] sem_timedwait Success, Start VSH clean up
30) Event:E_DEBUG, length:19, at 945843 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] + pnp_vsh_halt
31) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 945831 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
32) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 945643 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
33) Event:E_DEBUG, length:33, at 945607 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] !!! Received Unconfigure !!!
34) Event:E_DEBUG, length:74, at 945578 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:03:15 2019
[104] Rx: Direction: PnP PI -> PnP PD, Type: DHCP Unconfigure, Cfg: Present
35) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 789616 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: ascii gen completed rcode[0]
36) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 789579 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pss type: 5
37) Event:E_DEBUG, length:31, at 789522 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] Entering pnp_ascii_gen_cfg
38) Event:E_DEBUG, length:22, at 789514 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] Calling Ascii gen
39) Event:E_DEBUG, length:16, at 789506 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pss type: 2
40) Event:E_DEBUG, length:49, at 789489 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pnp_ascii_gen: fu_num_acfg_pss_entries[0x2]
41) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 789365 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
42) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 789135 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
43) Event:E_DEBUG, length:26, at 789096 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] Phase Init -> Monitor
44) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 788967 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:52 2019
[104] pnp_pi_spawn_finalize pid 1c9
45) Event:E_DEBUG, length:41, at 831561 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] + pnp_pi_spawn child_pid: 0xffff7e28
46) Event:E_DEBUG, length:45, at 831550 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
66

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
[104] Have startup config, Starting PnP PI....
47) Event:E_DEBUG, length:40, at 831538 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Posix log directory creation failed
48) Event:E_DEBUG, length:50, at 831479 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_fire_event: PNP_EVENT_HAVE_STARTUP_CONFIG
49) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 831465 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Inside : pnp_other_msg_handler
50) Event:E_DEBUG, length:80, at 831437 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_get_data_from_queue: dequeued event 0x1102e0cc 25/cat 11 from pending Q
51) Event:E_DEBUG, length:50, at 831368 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Injecting Event PNP_EVENT_HAVE_STARTUP_CONFIG
52) Event:E_DEBUG, length:59, at 831303 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Have Startup Config, move the process state to monitor
53) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 799379 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Accelerating PnP, Break Point: Break Point PoAP Init
54) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 799334 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
55) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 799239 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
56) Event:E_DEBUG, length:23, at 799226 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Phase None -> Init
57) Event:E_DEBUG, length:53, at 799200 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] Initilizing PnP-agent State machine curr_state 3
58) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 799188 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
59) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 799070 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
60) Event:E_DEBUG, length:26, at 798965 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] !!! Box is Online !!!
61) Event:E_DEBUG, length:35, at 798954 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit success
62) Event:E_DEBUG, length:57, at 798770 usecs after Fri Jan 11 08:01:49 2019
[104] pnp_pss_runtime_commit: Stored values in runtime PSS
63) Event:E_DEBUG, length:70, at 370297 usecs after Fri Jan 11 07:55:41 2019
[102] pnp_demux_mts(463): (Warning) unexpected mts msg (opcode - 7655)
64) Event:E_DEBUG, length:41, at 092701 usecs after Fri Jan 11 07:55:33 2019
[104] PnP Init Internal subsystem, Done!!!
65) Event:E_DEBUG, length:32, at 089920 usecs after Fri Jan 11 07:55:33 2019
[104] PnP Init Internal subsystem
Switch# show pnp posix_pi configs
/isan/etc/pnp/platform_config.cfg:
/isan/etc/pnp/file_paths.cfg:
67

Troubleshooting Examples for Network Plug and Play
/isan/etc/pnp/pnp_config.cfg:
/isan/etc/pnp/policy_discovery.conf:
/isan/etc/pnp/certs/platform.json:
/isan/etc/pnp/certs/pnp_status.json:
/isan/etc/pnp/certs/job_status.json:
68

6
This chapter contains these sections:
• About the CLI Prompt, on page 69
• Command Modes, on page 70
• Special Characters, on page 74
• Keystroke Shortcuts, on page 75
• Abbreviating Commands, on page 78
• Completing a Partial Command Name, on page 78
• Identifying Your Location in the Command Hierarchy, on page 79
• Using the no Form of a Command, on page 79
• Configuring CLI Variables, on page 80
• Command Aliases, on page 82
• Command Scripts, on page 85
• Context-Sensitive Help, on page 87
• Understanding Regular Expressions, on page 88
• Searching and Filtering show Command Output, on page 89
• Searching and Filtering from the --More-- Prompt, on page 94
• Using the Command History, on page 95
• Enabling or Disabling the CLI Confirmation Prompts, on page 97
• Setting CLI Display Colors, on page 97
• Sending Commands to Modules, on page 98
• Sending Command Output in Email, on page 99
• BIOS Loader Prompt, on page 101
• Examples Using the CLI, on page 101
About the CLI Prompt
Once you have successfully accessed the device, the CLI prompt displays in the terminal window of your
console port or remote workstation as shown in the following example:
User Access Verification
login: admin
Password:<password>
Cisco Nexus Operating System (NX-OS) Software
TAC support: http://www.cisco.com/tac
69

Command Modes
Copyright (c) 2002-2013, Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
The copyrights to certain works contained in this software are
owned by other third parties and used and distributed under
license. Certain components of this software are licensed under
the GNU General Public License (GPL) version 2.0 or the GNU
Lesser General Public License (LGPL) Version 2.1. A copy of each
such license is available at
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.php and
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.php
switch#
You can change the default device hostname.
From the CLI prompt, you can do the following:
• Use CLI commands for configuring features
• Access the command history
• Use command parsing functions
Note In normal operation, usernames are case sensitive. However, when you are connected to the device through
its console port, you can enter a login username in all uppercase letters regardless of how the username was
defined. As long as you provide the correct password, the device logs you in.
Command Modes
This section describes command modes in the Cisco NX-OS CLI.
EXEC Command Mode
When you first log in, the Cisco NX-OS software places you in EXEC mode. The commands available in
EXEC mode include the show commands that display the device status and configuration information, the
clear commands, and other commands that perform actions that you do not save in the device configuration.
Global Configuration Command Mode
Global configuration mode provides access to the broadest range of commands. The term indicates
characteristics or features that affect the device as a whole. You can enter commands in global configuration
mode to configure your device globally or to enter more specific configuration modes to configure specific
elements such as interfaces or protocols.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
70

Interface Configuration Command Mode
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example: Note
The CLI prompt changes to indicate that you are in global
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# configuration mode.
Interface Configuration Command Mode
One example of a specific configuration mode that you enter from global configuration mode is interface
configuration mode. To configure interfaces on your device, you must specify the interface and enter interface
configuration mode.
You must enable many features on a per-interface basis. Interface configuration commands modify the operation
of the interfaces on the device, such as Ethernet interfaces or management interfaces (mgmt 0).
For more information about configuring interfaces, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Interfaces
Configuration Guide.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. interface type number
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 interface type number Specifies the interface that you want to configure.
Example: The CLI places you into interface configuration mode for
the specified interface.
switch(config)# interface ethernet 2/2
switch(config-if)#
Note
The CLI prompt changes to indicate that you are in
interface configuration mode.
71

Subinterface Configuration Command Mode
Subinterface Configuration Command Mode
From global configuration mode, you can access a configuration submode for configuring VLAN interfaces
called subinterfaces. In subinterface configuration mode, you can configure multiple virtual interfaces on a
single physical interface. Subinterfaces appear to a protocol as distinct physical interfaces.
Subinterfaces also allow multiple encapsulations for a protocol on a single interface. For example, you can
configure IEEE 802.1Q encapsulation to associate a subinterface with a VLAN.
For more information about configuring subinterfaces, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Interfaces
Configuration Guide.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. interface type number.subint
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 interface type number.subint Specifies the VLAN interface to be configured.
Example: The CLI places you into a subinterface configuration mode
for the specified VLAN interface.
switch(config)# interface ethernet 2/2.1
switch(config-subif)#
Note
The CLI prompt changes to indicate that you are in
subinterface configuration mode.
Saving and Restoring a Command Mode
The Cisco NX-OS software allows you to save the current command mode, configure a feature, and then
restore the previous command mode. The push command saves the command mode, and the pop command
restores the command mode.
The following example shows how to save and restore a command mode:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# event manager applet test
switch(config-applet)# push
switch(config-applet)# configure terminal
switch(config)# username testuser password newtest
switch(config)# pop
switch(config-applet)#
72

Exiting a Configuration Command Mode
Exiting a Configuration Command Mode
SUMMARY STEPS
1. exit
2. end
3. (Optional) Ctrl-Z
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 exit Exits from the current configuration command mode and
returns to the previous configuration command mode.
Example:
switch(config-if)# exit
switch(config)#
Step 2 end Exits from the current configuration command mode and
returns to EXEC mode.
Example:
switch(config-if)# end
switch#
Step 3 (Optional) Ctrl-Z Exits the current configuration command mode and returns
to EXEC mode.
Example:
switch(config-if)# ^Z Caution
switch# If you press Ctrl-Z at the end of a command line in which
a valid command has been typed, the CLI adds the
command to the running configuration file. In most cases,
you should exit a configuration mode using the exit or end
command.
Command Mode Summary
This table summarizes information about the main command modes.
Table4:CommandModeSummary
Mode Access Method Prompt Exit Method
EXEC From the login prompt, enter To exit to the login prompt, use
your username and password. switch# the exit command.
Global From EXEC mode, use the To exit to EXEC mode, use the
configuration configure terminal switch(config)# end or exit command or press
command. Ctrl-Z.
73

Special Characters
Mode Access Method Prompt Exit Method
Interface From global configuration To exit to global configuration
configuration mode, specify an interface switch(config-if)# mode, use the exit command.
with an interface command.
To exit to EXEC mode, use the
exit command or press Ctrl-Z.
Subinterface From global configuration To exit to global configuration
configuration mode, specify a subinterface switch(config-subif)# mode, use the exit command.
with an interface command.
To exit to EXEC mode, use the
end command or press Ctrl-Z.
VRF From global configuration To exit to global configuration
configuration mode, use the vrf command switch(config-vrf)# mode, use the exit command.
and specify a routing protocol.
To exit to EXEC mode, use the
end command or press Ctrl-Z.
EXEC for a From EXEC mode, use the To exit to the default VRF, use
nondefault VRF routing-context vrf command switch-red# the routing-context vrf default
and specify a VRF. command.
Special Characters
This table lists the characters that have special meaning in Cisco NX-OS text strings and should be used only
in regular expressions or other special contexts.
Table5:SpecialCharacters
Character Description
% Percent
# Pound, hash, or number
... Ellipsis
| Vertical bar
< > Less than or greater than
[ ] Brackets
{ } Braces
74

Keystroke Shortcuts
Keystroke Shortcuts
This table lists command key combinations that can be used in both EXEC and configuration modes.
Table6:KeystrokeShortcuts
Keystrokes Description
Ctrl-A Moves the cursor to the beginning of the line.
Ctrl-B Moves the cursor one character to the left. When you enter a command that extends beyond
a single line, you can press the Left Arrow or Ctrl-B keys repeatedly to scroll back toward
the system prompt and verify the beginning of the command entry, or you can press the
Ctrl-A key combination.
Ctrl-C Cancels the command and returns to the command prompt.
Ctrl-D Deletes the character at the cursor.
Ctrl-E Moves the cursor to the end of the line.
Ctrl-F Moves the cursor one character to the right.
Ctrl-G Exits to the previous command mode without removing the command string.
Ctrl-K Deletes all characters from the cursor to the end of the command line.
Ctrl-L Redisplays the current command line.
Ctrl-N Displays the next command in the command history.
Ctrl-O Clears the terminal screen.
Ctrl-P Displays the previous command in the command history.
Ctrl-R Redisplays the current command line.
Ctrl-T Transposes the character under the cursor with the character located to the right of the
cursor. The cursor is then moved to the right one character.
Ctrl-U Deletes all characters from the cursor to the beginning of the command line.
Ctrl-V Removes any special meaning for the following keystroke. For example, press Ctrl-V
before entering a question mark (?) in a regular expression.
Ctrl-W Deletes the word to the left of the cursor.
Ctrl-X, H Lists the history of commands you have entered.
When using this key combination, press and release the Ctrl and X keys together before
pressing H.
Ctrl-Y Recalls the most recent entry in the buffer (press keys simultaneously).
75

Keystroke Shortcuts
Keystrokes Description
Ctrl-Z Ends a configuration session, and returns you to EXEC mode.
When used at the end of a command line in which a valid command has been typed, the
resulting configuration is first added to the running configuration file.
Up arrow key Displays the previous command in the command history.
Down arrow Displays the next command in the command history.
key
Right arrow key Moves your cursor through the command string, either forward or backward, allowing you
to edit the current command.
Left arrow key
? Displays a list of available commands.
76

Keystroke Shortcuts
Keystrokes Description
Tab Completes the word for you after you enter the first characters of the word and then press
the Tab key. All options that match are presented.
Use tabs to complete the following items:
• Command names
• Scheme names in the file system
• Server names in the file system
• Filenames in the file system
Example:
switch(config)# xm<Tab>
switch(config)# xml<Tab>
switch(config)# xml server
Example:
switch(config)# c<Tab>
callhome class-map clock
cdp cli control-plane
switch(config)# cl<Tab>
class-map cli clock
switch(config)# cla<Tab>
switch(config)# class-map
Example:
switch# cd bootflash:<Tab>
bootflash:///
bootflash://sup-1/
bootflash://sup-active/
bootflash://sup-local/
bootflash://module-27/
bootflash://module-28/
Example:
switch# cd bootflash://mo<Tab>
bootflash://module-27/ bootflash://module-28/
switch# cd bootflash://module-2
Note
You cannot access remote machines using the cd command. If you are on slot 27 and
enter the cd bootflash://module-28 command, the following message appears: "Changing
directory to a non-local server is not allowed."
77

Abbreviating Commands
Abbreviating Commands
You can abbreviate commands and keywords by entering the first few characters of a command. The
abbreviation must include sufficient characters to make it unique from other commands or keywords. If you
are having trouble entering a command, check the system prompt and enter the question mark (?) for a list of
available commands. You might be in the wrong command mode or using incorrect syntax.
This table lists examples of command abbreviations.
Table7:ExamplesofCommandAbbreviations
Command Abbreviation
configure terminal conf t
copy running-config startup-config copy run
start
interface ethernet 1/2 int e 1/2
show running-config sh run
Completing a Partial Command Name
If you cannot remember a complete command name or if you want to reduce the amount of typing you have
to perform, enter the first few letters of the command, and then press the Tab key. The command line parser
will complete the command if the string entered is unique to the command mode. If your keyboard does not
have a Tab key, press Ctrl-I instead.
The CLI recognizes a command once you have entered enough characters to make the command unique. For
example, if you enter conf in EXEC mode, the CLI will be able to associate your entry with the configure
command, because only the configure command begins with conf.
In the following example, the CLI recognizes the unique string for conf in EXEC mode when you press the
Tab key:
switch# conf<Tab>
switch# configure
When you use the command completion feature, the CLI displays the full command name. The CLI does not
execute the command until you press the Return or Enter key. This feature allows you to modify the command
if the full command was not what you intended by the abbreviation. If you enter a set of characters that could
indicate more than one command, a list of matching commands displays.
For example, entering co<Tab> lists all commands available in EXEC mode beginning with co:
switch# co<Tab>
configure copy
switch# co
Note that the characters you entered appear at the prompt again to allow you to complete the command entry.
78

Identifying Your Location in the Command Hierarchy
Identifying Your Location in the Command Hierarchy
Some features have a configuration submode hierarchy nested more than one level. In these cases, you can
display information about your present working context (PWC).
SUMMARY STEPS
1. where detail
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 where detail Displays the PWC.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# interface mgmt0
switch(config-if)# where detail
mode: conf
interface mgmt0
username: admin
routing-context vrf: default
Using the no Form of a Command
Almost every configuration command has a no form that can be used to disable a feature, revert to a default
value, or remove a configuration.
This example shows how to disable a feature:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# feature tacacs+
switch(config)# no feature tacacs+
This example shows how to revert to the default value for a feature:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# banner motd #Welcome to the switch#
switch(config)# show banner motd
Welcome to the switch
switch(config)# no banner motd
switch(config)# show banner motd
User Access Verification
This example shows how to remove the configuration for a feature:
79

Configuring CLI Variables
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# radius-server host 10.10.2.2
switch(config)# show radius-server
retransmission count:0
timeout value:1
deadtime value:1
total number of servers:1
following RADIUS servers are configured:
10.10.1.1:
available for authentication on port:1812
available for accounting on port:1813
10.10.2.2:
available for authentication on port:1812
available for accounting on port:1813
switch(config)# no radius-server host 10.10.2.2
switch(config)# show radius-server
retransmission count:0
timeout value:1
deadtime value:1
total number of servers:1
following RADIUS servers are configured:
10.10.1.1:
available for authentication on port:1812
available for accounting on port:1813
This example shows how to use the no form of a command in EXEC mode:
switch# cli var name testinterface ethernet1/2
switch# show cli variables
SWITCHNAME="switch"
TIMESTAMP="2013-05-12-13.43.13"
testinterface="ethernet1/2"
switch# cli no var name testinterface
switch# show cli variables
SWITCHNAME="switch"
TIMESTAMP="2013-05-12-13.43.13"
Configuring CLI Variables
This section describes CLI variables in the Cisco NX-OS CLI.
About CLI Variables
The Cisco NX-OS software supports the definition and use of variables in CLI commands.
You can refer to CLI variables in the following ways:
• Entered directly on the command line.
• Passed to a script initiated using the run-script command. The variables defined in the parent shell are
available for use in the child run-script command process.
CLI variables have the following characteristics:
• Cannot have nested references through another variable
80

Configuring CLI Session-Only Variables
• Can persist across switch reloads or exist only for the current session
Cisco NX-OS supports one predefined variable: TIMESTAMP. This variable refers to the current time when
the command executes in the format YYYY-MM-DD-HH.MM.SS.
Note The TIMESTAMP variable name is case sensitive. All letters must be uppercase.
Configuring CLI Session-Only Variables
You can define CLI session variables to persist only for the duration of your CLI session. These variables are
useful for scripts that you execute periodically. You can reference the variable by enclosing the name in
parentheses and preceding it with a dollar sign ($), for example $(variable-name).
SUMMARY STEPS
1. cli var name variable-name variable-text
2. (Optional) show cli variables
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 cli var name variable-name variable-text Configures the CLI session variable. The variable-name
argument is alphanumeric, case sensitive, and has a
Example:
maximum length of 31 characters. The variable-text
switch# cli var name testinterface ethernet 2/1 argument is alphanumeric, case sensitive, can contain
spaces, and has a maximum length of 200 characters.
Note
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I4(1),
variables can include hyphens (-) and underscores (_).
Step 2 (Optional) show cli variables Displays the CLI variable configuration.
Example:
switch# show cli variables
Configuring Persistent CLI Variables
You can configure CLI variables that persist across CLI sessions and device reloads.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. cli var name variable-name variable-text
3. exit
81

Command Aliases
4. (Optional) show cli variables
5. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 cli var name variable-name variable-text Configures the CLI persistent variable. The variable name
is a case-sensitive, alphanumeric string and must begin with
Example:
an alphabetic character. The maximum length is 31
switch(config)# cli var name testinterface ethernet characters.
2/1
Note
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 7.0(3)I4(1),
variables can include hyphens (-) and underscores (_).
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 4 (Optional) show cli variables Displays the CLI variable configuration.
Example:
switch# show cli variables
Step 5 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config
Command Aliases
This section provides information about command aliases.
About Command Aliases
You can define command aliases to replace frequently used commands. The command aliases can represent
all or part of the command syntax.
Command alias support has the following characteristics:
• Command aliases are global for all user sessions.
82

Defining Command Aliases
• Command aliases persist across reboots if you save them to the startup configuration.
• Command alias translation always takes precedence over any keyword in any configuration mode or
submode.
• Command alias configuration takes effect for other user sessions immediately.
• The Cisco NX-OS software provides one default alias, alias, which is the equivalent to the show cli alias
command that displays all user-defined aliases.
• You cannot delete or change the default command alias alias.
• You can nest aliases to a maximum depth of 1. One command alias can refer to another command alias
that must refer to a valid command, not to another command alias.
• A command alias always replaces the first command keyword on the command line.
• You can define command aliases for commands in any command mode.
• If you reference a CLI variable in a command alias, the current value of the variable appears in the alias,
not the variable reference.
• You can use command aliases for show command searching and filtering.
Note When using the cli alias name command, few keywords are reserved and cannot be used. To view the list of
reserved keywords, type the show cli internal keywords common command. The reserved keywords match
either partially or fully. For instance, in the cli alias name i show version command, i is a partial match. To
prevent the use of reserved keywords, enable strict checking using the cli alias check strict command. This
command is not enabled by default. After enabling the command, if a user attempts to use any reserved
keywords, the switch displays an error.
Defining Command Aliases
You can define command aliases for commonly used commands.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. cli alias name alias-name alias-text
3. exit
4. (Optional) alias
5. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
83

Configuring Command Aliases for a User Session
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 cli alias name alias-name alias-text Configures the command alias. The alias name is an
alphanumeric string that is not case sensitive and must begin
Example:
with an alphabetic character. The maximum length is 30
switch(config)# cli alias name ethint interface characters.
ethernet
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 4 (Optional) alias Displays the command alias configuration.
Example:
switch# alias
Step 5 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Configuring Command Aliases for a User Session
You can create a command alias for the current user session that is not available to any other user on the Cisco
NX-OS device. You can also save the command alias for future use by the current user account.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. terminal alias [persist] alias-name command-string
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 terminal alias [persist] alias-name command-string Configures a command alias for the current user session.
Use the persist keyword to save the alias for future use by
Example:
the user account.
switch# terminal alias shintbr show interface brief
Note
84

Command Scripts
Do not abbreviate the persist keyword.
Command Scripts
This section describes how you can create scripts of commands to perform multiple tasks.
Running a Command Script
You can create a list of commands in a file and execute them from the CLI. You can use CLI variables in the
command script.
Note You cannot create the script files at the CLI prompt. You can create the script file on a remote device and
copy it to the bootflash: or volatile: directory on the Cisco NX-OS device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. run-script [bootflash: | volatile:] filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 run-script [bootflash: | volatile:] filename Executes the commands in the file on the default directory.
Example:
switch# run-script testfile
Echoing Information to the Terminal
You can echo information to the terminal, which is particularly useful from a command script. You can
reference CLI variables and use formatting options in the echoed text.
This table lists the formatting options that you can insert in the text.
Table8:FormattingOptionsfortheechoCommand
Formatting Description
Option
\b Inserts back spaces.
\c Removes the new line character at the end of the text string.
85

Delaying Command Action
Formatting Description
Option
\f Inserts a form feed character.
\n Inserts a new line character.
\r Returns to the beginning of the text line.
\t Inserts a horizontal tab character.
\v Inserts a vertical tab character.
\\ Displays a backslash character.
\nnn Displays the corresponding ASCII octal character.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. echo [backslash-interpret] [text]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 echo [backslash-interpret] [text] The backslash-interpret keyword indicates that the text
string contains formatting options. The text argument is
Example:
alphanumeric, case sensitive, and can contain blanks. The
switch# echo This is a test. maximum length is 200 characters. The default is a blank
This is a test.
line.
Delaying Command Action
You can delay a command action for a period of time, which is particularly useful within a command script.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. sleep seconds
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 sleep seconds Causes a delay for a number of seconds. The range is from
0 to 2147483647.
Example:
switch# sleep 30
86

Context-Sensitive Help
Context-Sensitive Help
The Cisco NX-OS software provides context-sensitive help in the CLI. You can use a question mark (?) at
any point in a command to list the valid input options.
CLI uses the caret (^) symbol to isolate input errors. The ^ symbol appears at the point in the command string
where you have entered an incorrect command, keyword, or argument.
This table shows example outputs of context sensitive help.
Table9:Context-SensitiveHelpExample
Example Outputs Description
Displays the command syntax for the clock
switch# clock ? command in EXEC mode.
set HH:MM:SS Current Time
switch# clock The switch output shows that the set keyword is
required for using the clock command.
switch# clock set ? Displays the command syntax for setting the time.
WORD HH:MM:SS Current Time
switch# clock set The help output shows that the current time is
required for setting the clock and how to format the
time.
switch# clock set 13:32:00<CR> Adds the current time.
% Incomplete command
switch# The CLI indicates the command is incomplete.
switch# <Ctrl-P> Displays the previous command that you entered.
switch# clock set 13:32:00
switch# clock set 13:32:00 ? Displays the additional arguments for the clock set
<1-31> Day of the month command.
switch# clock set 13:32:00
Displays the additional arguments for the clock set
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18 ? command.
April Month of the year
August Month of the year
December Month of the year
February Month of the year
January Month of the year
July Month of the year
June Month of the year
March Month of the year
May Month of the year
November Month of the year
October Month of the year
September Month of the year
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18
Adds the date to the clock setting.
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18 April 13<CR>
% Invalid input detected at '^' marker. The CLI indicates an error with the caret symbol (^)
at 13.
87

Understanding Regular Expressions
Example Outputs Description
Displays the correct arguments for the year.
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18 April ?
<2000-2030> Enter the year (no abbreviation)
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18 April
Enters the correct syntax for the clock set command.
switch# clock set 13:32:00 18 April 2013<CR>
switch#
Understanding Regular Expressions
The Cisco NX-OS software supports regular expressions for searching and filtering in CLI output, such as
the show commands. Regular expressions are case sensitive and allow for complex matching requirements.
Special Characters
You can also use other keyboard characters (such as ! or ~) as single-character patterns, but certain keyboard
characters have special meanings when used in regular expressions.
This table lists the keyboard characters that have special meanings.
Table10:SpecialCharacterswithSpecialMeaning
Character Special Meaning
. Matches any single character, including white space.
* Matches 0 or more sequences of the pattern.
+ Matches 1 or more sequences of the pattern.
? Matches 0 or 1 occurrences of the pattern.
^ Matches the beginning of the string.
$ Matches the end of the string.
_ Matches a comma (,), left brace ({), right brace (}), left parenthesis ( ( ), right parenthesis
(underscore) ( ) ), the beginning of the string, the end of the string, or a space.
Note
The underscore is only treated as a regular expression for BGP-related commands
To use these special characters as single-character patterns, remove the special meaning by preceding each
character with a backslash (\). This example contains single-character patterns that match a dollar sign ($),
an underscore (_), and a plus sign (+), respectively:
\$ \_ \+
88

Multiple-Character Patterns
Multiple-Character Patterns
You can also specify a pattern that contains multiple characters by joining letters, digits, or keyboard characters
that do not have special meanings. For example, a4% is a multiple-character regular expression.
With multiple-character patterns, the order is important. The regular expression a4% matches the character a
followed by a 4 followed by a percent sign (%). If the string does not have a4%, in that order, pattern matching
fails. The multiple-character regular expression a. (the character a followed by a period) uses the special
meaning of the period character to match the letter a followed by any single character. With this example, the
strings ab, a!, or a2 are all valid matches for the regular expression.
You can remove the special meaning of a special character by inserting a backslash before it. For example,
when the expression a\. is used in the command syntax, only the string a. will be matched.
Anchoring
You can match a regular expression pattern against the beginning or the end of the string by anchoring these
regular expressions to a portion of the string using the special characters.
This table lists the special characters that you can use for anchoring.
Table11:SpecialCharactersUsedforAnchoring
Character Description
^ Matches the beginning of the string.
$ Matches the end of the string.
For example, the regular expression ^con matches any string that starts with con, and sole$ matches any
string that ends with sole.
Note The ^ symbol can also be used to indicate the logical function "not" when used in a bracketed range. For
example, the expression [^abcd] indicates a range that matches any single letter, as long as it is not a, b, c,
or d.
Searching and Filtering show Command Output
Often, the output from showcommands can be lengthy and cumbersome. The Cisco NX-OS software provides
the means to search and filter the output so that you can easily locate information. The searching and filtering
options follow a pipe character (|) at the end of the show command. You can display the options using the
CLI context-sensitive help facility:
switch# show running-config | ?
cut Print selected parts of lines.
diff Show difference between current and previous invocation (creates temp files:
remove them with 'diff-clean' command and don't use it on commands with big
outputs, like 'show tech'!)
egrep Egrep - print lines matching a pattern
grep Grep - print lines matching a pattern
head Display first lines
89

Filtering and Searching Keywords
human Output in human format
last Display last lines
less Filter for paging
no-more Turn-off pagination for command output
perl Use perl script to filter output
section Show lines that include the pattern as well as the subsequent lines that are
more indented than matching line
sed Stream Editor
sort Stream Sorter
sscp Stream SCP (secure copy)
tr Translate, squeeze, and/or delete characters
uniq Discard all but one of successive identical lines
vsh The shell that understands cli command
wc Count words, lines, characters
xml Output in xml format (according to .xsd definitions)
begin Begin with the line that matches
count Count number of lines
end End with the line that matches
exclude Exclude lines that match
include Include lines that match
Filtering and Searching Keywords
The Cisco NX-OS CLI provides a set of keywords that you can use with the show commands to search and
filter the command output.
This table lists the keywords for filtering and searching the CLI output.
Table12:FilteringandSearchingKeywords
Keyword Syntax Description
begin string Starts displaying at the line that contains the text that
matches the search string. The search string is case
Example:
sensitive.
show version | begin Hardware
count Displays the number of lines in the command output.
Example:
show running-config | count
cut [-d character] {-b | -c | -f | -s} Displays only part of the output lines. You can display
a number of bytes (-b), characters (-vcut [-d
Example:
character] {-b | -c | -f | -s}), or fields (-f). You can
show file testoutput | cut -b 1-10 also use the -d keyword to define a field delimiter
other than the tag character default. The -s keyword
suppresses the display of the line that does not contain
the delimiter.
end string Displays all lines up to the last occurrence of the
search string.
Example:
show running-config | end interface
90

diff Utility
Keyword Syntax Description
exclude string Displays all lines that do not include the search string.
The search string is case sensitive.
Example:
show interface brief | exclude down
head [lines lines] Displays the beginning of the output for the number
of lines specified. The default number of lines is 10.
Example:
show logging logfile | head lines 50
human Displays the output in normal format if you have
previously set the output format to XML using the
Example:
terminal output xml command.
show version | human
include string Displays all lines that include the search string. The
search string is case sensitive.
Example:
show interface brief | include up
last [lines] Displays the end of the output for the number of lines
specified. The default number of lines is 10.
Example:
show logging logfile | last 50
no-more Displays all the output without stopping at the end of
the screen with the ––More–– prompt.
Example:
show interface brief | no-more
sscp SSH-connection-name filename Redirects the output using streaming secure copy
(sscp) to a named SSH connection. You can create
Example:
the SSH named connection using the ssh name
show version | sscp MyConnection command.
show_version_output
wc [bytes | lines | words] Displays counts of characters, lines, or words. The
default is to display the number of lines, words, and
Example:
characters.
show file testoutput | wc bytes
xml Displays the output in XML format.
Example:
show version | xml
diff Utility
You can compare the output from a show command with the output from the previous invocation of that
command.
diff-clean [all-sessions] [all-users]
91

grep and egrep Utilities
This table describes the keywords for the diff utility.
Keyword Description
all-sessions Removes diff temporary files from all sessions (past
and present sessions) of the current user.
all-users Removes diff temporary files from all sessions (past
and present sessions) of all users.
The Cisco NX-OS software creates temporary files for the most current output for a show command for all
current and previous users sessions. You can remove these temporary files using the diff-clean command.
diff-clean [all-sessions | all-users]
By default, the diff-clean command removes the temporary files for the current user's active session. The
all-sessions keyword removes temporary files for all past and present sessions for the current user. The
all-users keyword removes temporary files for all past and present sessions for the all users.
grep and egrep Utilities
You can use the Global Regular Expression Print (grep) and Extended grep (egrep) command-line utilities to
filter the show command output.
The grep and egrep syntax is as follows:
{grep | egrep} [count] [ignore-case] [invert-match] [line-exp] [line-number] [next lines] [prev lines]
[word-exp] expression}]
This table lists the grep and egrep parameters.
Table13:grepandegrepParameters
Parameter Description
count Displays only the total count of matched lines.
ignore-case Specifies to ignore the case difference in matched lines.
invert-match Displays lines that do not match the expression.
line-exp Displays only lines that match a complete line.
line-number Specifies to display the line number before each matched line.
next lines Specifies the number of lines to display after a matched line. The default is 0. The range is
from 1 to 999.
prev lines Specifies the number of lines to display before a matched line. The default is 0. The range is
from 1 to 999.
word-exp Displays only lines that match a complete word.
expression Specifies a regular expression for searching the output.
92

less Utility
less Utility
You can use the less utility to display the contents of the show command output one screen at a time. You
can enter less commands at the : prompt. To display all less commands you can use, enter h at the : prompt.
Mini AWK Utility
AWK is a simple but powerful utility to summarize text output. You can use this utility after a pipe (|) to
further process the text output of a command. Cisco NX-OS supports a mini AWK, which takes an inline
program as an argument.
This example shows how the mini AWK utility can be used to summarize the text output of the show ip route
summary vrf all command:
switch# show ip route summary vrf all | grep "Total number of routes"
Total number of routes: 3
Total number of routes: 10
switch# show ip route summary vrf all | grep "Total number of routes" | awk '{ x = x + $5}
END { print x }'
13
sed Utility
You can use the Stream Editor (sed) utility to filter and manipulate the show command output as follows:
sed command
The command argument contains sed utility commands.
sort Utility
You can use the sort utility to filter show command output.
The sort utility syntax is as follows:
sort [-M] [-b] [-d] [-f] [-g] [-i] [-k field-number[.char-position][ordering]] [-n] [-r] [-t delimiter] [-u]
This table describes the sort utiliity parameters.
Table14:sortUtilityParameters
Parameter Description
-M Sorts by month.
-b Ignores leading blanks (space characters). The default
sort includes the leading blanks.
-d Sorts by comparing only blanks and alphanumeric
characters. The default sort includes all characters.
-f Folds lowercase characters into uppercase characters.
-g Sorts by comparing a general numeric value.
93

Searching and Filtering from the --More-- Prompt
Parameter Description
-i Sorts only using printable characters. The default sort
includes nonprintable characters.
-k field-number[.char-position][ordering] Sorts according to a key value. There is no default key
value.
-n Sorts according to a numeric string value.
-r Reverses order of the sort results. The default sort
output is in ascending order.
-t delimiter Sorts using a specified delimiter. The default delimiter
is the space character.
-u Removes duplicate lines from the sort results. The sort
output displays the duplicate lines.
Searching and Filtering from the --More-- Prompt
You can search and filter output from --More–- prompts in the show command output.
This table describes the --More–- prompt commands.
Table15:--More--PromptCommands
Commands Description
[lines]<space> Displays output lines for either the specified number of lines or the current screen
size.
[lines]z Displays output lines for either the specified number of lines or the current screen
size. If you use the lines argument, that value becomes the new default screen
size.
[lines]<return> Displays output lines for either the specified number of lines or the current default
number of lines. The initial default is 1 line. If you use the optional lines argument,
that value becomes the new default number of lines to display for this command.
[lines]d or Scrolls through output lines for either the specified number of lines or the current
[lines]Ctrl+shift+D default number of lines. The initial default is 11 lines. If you use the optional lines
argument, that value becomes the new default number of lines to display for this
command.
q or Q or Ctrl-C Exits the --More–- prompt.
[lines]s Skips forward in the output for either the specified number of lines or the current
default number of lines and displays a screen of lines. The default is 1 line.
94

Using the Command History
Commands Description
[lines]f Skips forward in the output for either the specified number of screens or the
current default number of screens and displays a screen of lines. The default is 1
screen.
= Displays the current line number.
[count]/expression Skips to the line that matches the regular expression and displays a screen of
output lines. Use the optional count argument to search for lines with multiple
occurrences of the expression. This command sets the current regular expression
that you can use in other commands.
[count]n Skips to the next line that matches the current regular expression and displays a
screen of output lines. Use the optional count argument to skip past matches.
{! | :![shell-cmd]} Executes the command specified in the shell-cmd argument in a subshell.
. Repeats the previous command.
Using the Command History
The Cisco NX-OS software CLI allows you to access the command history for the current user session. You
can recall and reissue commands, with or without modification. You can also clear the command history.
Recalling a Command
You can recall a command in the command history to optionally modify and enter again.
This example shows how to recall a command and reenter it:
switch(config)# show cli history
0 11:04:07 configure terminal
1 11:04:28 show interface ethernet 2/24
2 11:04:39 interface ethernet 2/24
3 11:05:13 no shutdown
4 11:05:19 exit
5 11:05:25 show cli history
switch(config)# !1
switch(config)# show interface ethernet 2/24
You can also use the Ctrl-P and Ctrl-N keystroke shortcuts to recall commands.
Controlling CLI History Recall
You can control the commands that you recall from the CLI history using the Ctrl-P and Ctrl-N keystroke
shortcuts. Cisco NX-OS software recalls all commands from the current command mode and higher command
modes. For example, if you are working in global configuration mode, the command recall keystroke shortcuts
recall both EXEC mode and global configuration mode commands.
95

Configuring the CLI Edit Mode
Configuring the CLI Edit Mode
You can recall commands from the CLI history using the Ctrl-P and Ctrl-N keystroke shortcuts and edit
them before reissuing them. The default edit mode is emacs. You can change the edit mode to vi.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. [no] terminal edit-mode vi [persist]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 [no] terminal edit-mode vi [persist] Changes the CLI edit mode to vi for the user session. The
persist keyword makes the setting persistent across sessions
Example:
for the current username.
switch# terminal edit-mode vi
Use the no to revert to using emacs.
Displaying the Command History
You can display the command history using the show cli history command.
The show cli history command has the following syntax:
show cli history [lines] [config-mode | exec-mode | this-mode-only] [unformatted]
By default, the number of lines displayed is 12 and the output includes the command number and timestamp.
This example shows how to display the default number of lines of the command history:
switch# show cli history
This example shows how to display 20 lines of the command history:
switch# show cli history 20
This example shows how to display only the configuration commands in the command history:
Note One of the parameters available for the show cli history config-mode command is Number of lines to display
(from end). The line number here is dependent on the show cli list line numbers (from end) and not on show
cli history config-mode output line number. This parameter is mainly intended to be used with the show cli
history command.
switch(config)# show cli history config-mode
This example shows how to display only the EXEC commands in the command history:
96

Enabling or Disabling the CLI Confirmation Prompts
switch(config)# show cli history exec-mode
This example shows how to display only the commands in the command history for the current command
mode:
switch(config-if)# show cli history this-mode-only
This example shows how to display only the commands in the command history without the command number
and timestamp:
switch(config)# show cli history unformatted
Enabling or Disabling the CLI Confirmation Prompts
For many features, the Cisco NX-OS software displays prompts on the CLI that ask for confirmation before
continuing. You can enable or disable these prompts. The default is enabled.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. [no] terminal dont-ask [persist]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 [no] terminal dont-ask [persist] Disables the CLI confirmation prompt. The persist keyword
makes the setting persistent across sessions for the current
Example:
username. The default is enabled.
switch# terminal dont-ask
Use the no form of the command to enable the CLI
confirmation prompts.
Setting CLI Display Colors
You can change the CLI colors to display as follows:
• The prompt displays in green if the previous command succeeded.
• The prompt displays in red of the previous command failed.
• The user input displays in blue.
• The command output displays in the default color.
The default colors are sent by the terminal emulator software.
97

Sending Commands to Modules
SUMMARY STEPS
1. terminal color [evening] [persist]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 terminal color [evening] [persist] Sets the CLI display colors for the terminal session. The
evening keyword is not supported. The persist keyword
Example:
makes the setting persistent across sessions for the current
switch# terminal color username. The default setting is not persistent.
Sending Commands to Modules
You can send commands directly to modules from the supervisor module session using the slot command.
The slot has the following syntax:
slot slot-number [quoted] command-string
By default, the keyword and arguments in the command-string argument are separated by a space. To send
more than one command to a module, separate the commands with a space character, a semicolon character
(;), and a space character.
The quoted keyword indicates that the command string begins and ends with double quotation marks ("). Use
this keyword when you want to redirect the module command output to a filtering utility, such as diff, that is
supported only on the supervisor module session.
This example shows how to display and filter module information:
switch# slot 27 show version | grep lc
This example shows how to filter module information on the supervisor module session:
switch# slot 27 quoted "show version" | diff
switch# slot 28 quoted "show version" | diff -c
*** /volatile/vsh_diff_1_root_8430_slot__quoted_show_version.old Wed Apr 29 20:10:41
2013
--- - Wed Apr 29 20:10:41 2013
***************
*** 1,5 ****
! RAM 1036860 kB
! lc27
Software
BIOS: version 6.20
system: version 6.1(2)I1(1) [build 6.1(2)]
--- 1,5 ----
! RAM 516692 kB
! lc28
Software
BIOS: version 6.20
system: version 6.1(2)I1(1) [build 6.1(2)]
98

Sending Command Output in Email
***************
*** 12,16 ****
Hardware
bootflash: 0 blocks (block size 512b)
! uptime is 0 days 1 hours 45 minute(s) 34 second(s)
--- 12,16 ----
Hardware
bootflash: 0 blocks (block size 512b)
! uptime is 0 days 1 hours 45 minute(s) 42 second(s)
Sending Command Output in Email
You can use the CLI to send the output of a show command to an email address using the pipe operator (|).
Note The email configuration remains persistent for all show command output until it is reconfigured.
When you upgrade from a release before Cisco NX-OS Release 9.3(3) to Cisco NX-OS Release 9.3(3) or
later releases, email configuration will be missing. This is due to enabling DME functionality for this feature.
To resolve this, you need to execute "no email" and reapply the entire email configuration.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. email
3. smtp-host ip-address smtp-port port
4. vrf management
5. from email-address
6. reply-to email-address
7. exit
8. exit
9. show email
10. show-command | email subject subject email-address
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
99

Sending Command Output in Email
Step 2 email Enters email configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# email
switch(config-email)#
Step 3 smtp-host ip-address smtp-port port Specifies the SMTP host IP address and the SMTP port
number.
Example:
switch(config-email)# smtp-host 198.51.100.1
smtp-port 25
Step 4 vrf management Specifies a VRF for the email transmission.
Example:
switch(config-email)# vrf management
Step 5 from email-address Specifies the sender's email address.
Example:
switch(config-email)# from admin@Mycompany.com
Step 6 reply-to email-address Specifies the recipient's email address.
Example:
switch(config-email)# reply-to admin@Mycompany.com
Step 7 exit Exits email configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config-email)# exit
switch(config)#
Step 8 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 9 show email Displays the email configuration.
Example:
switch# show email
Step 10 show-command | email subject subject email-address Uses the pipe operator (|) to send the output of the specified
show command with a subject to an email address.
Example:
switch# show interface brief | email subject
show-interface admin@Mycompany.com
Email sent
100

BIOS Loader Prompt
BIOS Loader Prompt
When the supervisor modules power up, a specialized BIOS image automatically loads and tries to locate a
valid nx-os image for booting the system. If a valid nx-os image is not found, the following BIOS loader
prompt displays:
loader>
For information on how to load the Cisco NX-OS software from the loader> prompt, see the Cisco Nexus
9000 Series NX-OS Troubleshooting Guide.
Examples Using the CLI
This section includes examples of using the CLI.
Using the System-Defined Timestamp Variable
This example uses $(TIMESTAMP) when redirecting show command output to a file:
switch# show running-config > rcfg.$(TIMESTAMP)
Preparing to copy....done
switch# dir
12667 May 01 12:27:59 2013 rcfg.2013-05-01-12.27.59
Usage for bootflash://sup-local
8192 bytes used
20963328 bytes free
20971520 bytes total
Using CLI Session Variables
You can reference a variable using the syntax $(variable-name).
This example shows how to reference a user-defined CLI session variable:
switch# show interface $(testinterface)
Ethernet2/1 is down (Administratively down)
Hardware is 10/100/1000 Ethernet, address is 0000.0000.0000 (bia 0019.076c.4dac)
MTU 1500 bytes, BW 1000000 Kbit, DLY 10 usec,
reliability 255/255, txload 1/255, rxload 1/255
Encapsulation ARPA
auto-duplex, auto-speed
Beacon is turned off
Auto-Negotiation is turned on
Input flow-control is off, output flow-control is off
Auto-mdix is turned on
Switchport monitor is off
Last clearing of "show interface" counters never
5 minute input rate 0 bytes/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bytes/sec, 0 packets/sec
L3 in Switched:
101

Defining Command Aliases
ucast: 0 pkts, 0 bytes - mcast: 0 pkts, 0 bytes
L3 out Switched:
ucast: 0 pkts, 0 bytes - mcast: 0 pkts, 0 bytes
Rx
0 input packets 0 unicast packets 0 multicast packets
0 broadcast packets 0 jumbo packets 0 storm suppression packets
0 bytes
Tx
0 output packets 0 multicast packets
0 broadcast packets 0 jumbo packets
0 bytes
0 input error 0 short frame 0 watchdog
0 no buffer 0 runt 0 CRC 0 ecc
0 overrun 0 underrun 0 ignored 0 bad etype drop
0 bad proto drop 0 if down drop 0 input with dribble
0 input discard
0 output error 0 collision 0 deferred
0 late collision 0 lost carrier 0 no carrier
0 babble
0 Rx pause 0 Tx pause 0 reset
Defining Command Aliases
This example shows how to define command aliases:
cli alias name ethint interface ethernet
cli alias name shintbr show interface brief
cli alias name shintupbr shintbr | include up | include ethernet
This example shows how to use a command alias:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# ethint 2/3
switch(config-if)#
Running a Command Script
This example displays the CLI commands specified in the script file:
switch# show file testfile
configure terminal
interface ethernet 2/1
no shutdown
end
show interface ethernet 2/1
This example displays the run-script command execution output:
switch# run-script testfile
`configure terminal`
`interface ethernet 2/1`
`no shutdown`
`end`
`show interface ethernet 2/1 `
Ethernet2/1 is down (Link not connected)
102

Sending Command Output in Email
Hardware is 10/100/1000 Ethernet, address is 0019.076c.4dac (bia 0019.076c.4dac)
MTU 1500 bytes, BW 1000000 Kbit, DLY 10 usec,
reliability 255/255, txload 1/255, rxload 1/255
Encapsulation ARPA
Port mode is trunk
auto-duplex, auto-speed
Beacon is turned off
Auto-Negotiation is turned on
Input flow-control is off, output flow-control is off
Auto-mdix is turned on
Switchport monitor is off
Last clearing of "show interface" counters 1d26.2uh
5 minute input rate 0 bytes/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bytes/sec, 0 packets/sec
Rx
0 input packets 0 unicast packets 0 multicast packets
0 broadcast packets 0 jumbo packets 0 storm suppression packets
0 bytes
Tx
0 output packets 0 multicast packets
0 broadcast packets 0 jumbo packets
0 bytes
0 input error 0 short frame 0 watchdog
0 no buffer 0 runt 0 CRC 0 ecc
0 overrun 0 underrun 0 ignored 0 bad etype drop
0 bad proto drop 0 if down drop 0 input with dribble
0 input discard
0 output error 0 collision 0 deferred
0 late collision 0 lost carrier 0 no carrier
0 babble
0 Rx pause 0 Tx pause 0 reset
Sending Command Output in Email
This example shows how to send the output of the show interface brief command to an email address using
the pipe operator (|):
switch<config># email
switch(config-email)# smtp-host 198.51.100.1 smtp-port 25
switch(config-email)# vrf management
switch(config-email)# from admin@Mycompany.com
switch(config-email)# reply-to admin@Mycompany.com
switch(config-email)# exit
switch(config)# exit
switch# show email
SMTP host: 198.51.100.1
SMTP port: 25
Reply to: admin@Mycompany.com
From: admin@Mycompany.com
VRF: management
switch# show interface brief | email subject show-interface admin@Mycompany.com
Email sent
The email sent to admin@Mycompany.com with the subject "show-interface" shows the output of the command:
<snip>
---------------------------------------------------------------------
103

Sending Command Output in Email
Ethernet VLAN Type Mode Status Reason Speed Port
Interface Ch #
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Eth1/1 -- eth trunk up none 10G (D) --
Eth1/2 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto(D) --
Eth1/3 -- eth routed up none 10G (D) --
Eth1/4 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/5 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/6 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/7 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/8 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/9 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
Eth1/10 -- eth routed down Link not connected auto (D) --
<snip>
104

7
Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
This chapter contains these sections:
• About Terminal Settings and Sessions, on page 105
• Default Settings for File System Parameters, on page 106
• Configuring the Console Port, on page 106
• Configuring Virtual Terminals, on page 108
• Clearing Terminal Sessions, on page 110
• Displaying Terminal and Session Information, on page 110
About Terminal Settings and Sessions
This section includes information about terminal settings and sessions.
Terminal Session Settings
The Cisco NX-OS software features allow you to manage the following characteristics of terminals:
Terminal type
Name used by Telnet when communicating with remote hosts
Length
Number of lines of command output displayed before pausing
Width
Number of characters displayed before wrapping the line
Inactive session timeout
Number of minutes that a session remains inactive before the device terminates it
Console Port
The console port is an asynchronous serial port that allows you to connect to the device for initial configuration
through a standard RS-232 port with an RJ-45 connector. Any device connected to this port must be capable
of asynchronous transmission. You can configure the following parameters for the console port:
Data bits
Specifies the number of bits in an 8-bit byte that is used for data.
Inactive session timeout
Specifies the number of minutes a session can be inactive before it is terminated.
105

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Virtual Terminals
Parity
Specifies the odd or even parity for error detection.
Speed
Specifies the transmission speed for the connection.
Stop bits
Specifies the stop bits for an asynchronous line.
Configure your terminal emulator with 9600 baud, 8 data bits, 1 stop bit, and no parity.
Virtual Terminals
You can use virtual terminal lines to connect to your device. Secure Shell (SSH) and Telnet create virtual
terminal sessions. You can configure an inactive session timeout and a maximum sessions limit for virtual
terminals.
Default Settings for File System Parameters
This table lists the default settings for the file system parameters.
Table16:DefaultFileSystemSettings
Parameters Default
Default filesystem bootflash:
Configuring the Console Port
You can set the following characteristics for the console port:
• Data bits
• Inactive session timeout
• Parity
• Speed
• Stop bits
Before you begin
Log in to the console port.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. line console
3. databits bits
4. exec-timeout minutes
5. parity {even | none | odd}
106

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Configuring the Console Port
6. speed {300 | 1200 | 2400 | 4800 | 9600 | 38400 | 57600 | 115200}
7. stopbits {1 | 2}
8. exit
9. (Optional) show line console
10. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 line console Enters console configuration mode.
Example:
switch# line console
switch(config-console)#
Step 3 databits bits Configures the number of data bits per byte. The range is
from 5 to 8. The default is 8.
Example:
switch(config-console)# databits 7
Step 4 exec-timeout minutes Configures the timeout for an inactive session. The range
is from 0 to 525600 minutes (8760 hours). A value of 0
Example:
minutes disables the session timeout. The default is 30
switch(config-console)# exec-timeout 30 minutes.
Step 5 parity {even | none | odd} Configures the parity. The default is none.
Example:
switch(config-console)# parity even
Step 6 speed {300 | 1200 | 2400 | 4800 | 9600 | 38400 | 57600 | Configures the transmit and receive speed. The default is
115200} 9600.
Example:
switch(config-console)# speed 115200
Step 7 stopbits {1 | 2} Configures the stop bits. The default is 1.
Example:
switch(config-console)# stopbits 2
Step 8 exit Exits console configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config-console)# exit
switch(config)#
107

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Configuring Virtual Terminals
Step 9 (Optional) show line console Displays the console settings.
Example:
switch(config)# show line console
Step 10 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config
Configuring Virtual Terminals
This section describes how to configure virtual terminals on Cisco NX-OS devices.
Configuring the Inactive Session Timeout
You can configure a timeout for inactive virtual terminal sessions on the device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. line vty
3. exec-timeout minutes
4. exit
5. (Optional) show running-config all | begin vty
6. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 line vty Enters line configuration mode.
Example:
switch# line vty
switch(config-line)#
Step 3 exec-timeout minutes Configures the inactive session timeout. The range is from
0 to 525600 minutes (8760 hours). A value of 0 minutes
Example:
disables the timeout. The default value is 30.
switch(config-line)# exec-timeout 30
108

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Configuring the Session Limit
Step 4 exit Exits line configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config-line)# exit
switch(config)#
Step 5 (Optional) show running-config all | begin vty Displays the virtual terminal configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# show running-config all | begin
vty
Step 6 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config
Configuring the Session Limit
You can limit the number of virtual terminal sessions on your device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. line vty
3. session-limit sessions
4. exit
5. (Optional) show running-config all | begin vty
6. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 line vty Enters line configuration mode.
Example:
switch# line vty
switch(config-line)#
Step 3 session-limit sessions Configures the maximum number of virtual sessions for
your device. The range is from 1 to 64. The default is 32.
Example:
109

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Clearing Terminal Sessions
switch(config-line)# session-limit 10
Step 4 exit Exits line configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config-line)# exit
switch(config)#
Step 5 (Optional) show running-config all | begin vty Displays the virtual terminal configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# show running-config all | begin
vty
Step 6 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config
Clearing Terminal Sessions
You can clear terminal sessions on your device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) show users
2. clear line name
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) show users Displays the user sessions on the device.
Example:
switch# show users
Step 2 clear line name Clears a terminal session on a specific line. The line name
is case sensitive.
Example:
switch# clear line pts/0
Displaying Terminal and Session Information
To display terminal and session information, perform one of the following tasks:
110

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Displaying Terminal and Session Information
Command Purpose
show terminal Displays terminal settings.
show line Displays the COM1 and console ports settings.
show users Displays virtual terminal sessions.
show running-config [all] Displays the user account configuration in the running configuration. The all
keyword displays the default values for the user accounts.
111

Configuring Terminal Settings and Sessions
Displaying Terminal and Session Information
112

8
Basic Device Management
This chapter contains these sections:
• About Basic Device Management, on page 113
• Default Settings for Basic Device Parameters, on page 114
• Changing the Device Hostname, on page 114
• Configuring the MOTD Banner, on page 115
• Configuring the Time Zone, on page 117
• Configuring Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time), on page 117
• Manually Setting the Device Clock, on page 119
• Setting the Clock Manager, on page 119
• Managing Users, on page 120
• Verifying the Device Configuration, on page 121
About Basic Device Management
This section provides information about basic device management.
Device Hostname
You can change the device hostname displayed in the command prompt from the default (switch) to another
character string. When you give the device a unique hostname, you can easily identify the device from the
command-line interface (CLI) prompt.
Message-of-the-Day Banner
The message-of-the-day (MOTD) banner displays before the user login prompt on the device. This message
can contain any information that you want to display for users of the device.
Device Clock
If you do not synchronize your device with a valid outside timing mechanism, such as an NTP clock source,
you can manually set the clock time when your device boots.
113

Basic Device Management
Clock Manager
Clock Manager
The Cisco NX-OS device might contain clocks of different types that might need to be synchronized. These
clocks are a part of various components (such as the supervisor, line card processors, or line cards), and each
might be using a different protocol.
The clock manager provides a way to synchronize these different clocks.
Time Zone and Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time)
You can configure the time zone and summer time (daylight saving time) setting for your device. These values
offset the clock time from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). UTC is International Atomic Time (TAI) with
leap seconds added periodically to compensate for the Earth's slowing rotation. UTC was formerly called
Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
User Sessions
You can display the active user session on your device. You can also send messages to the user sessions. For
more information about managing user sessions and accounts, see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Security
Configuration Guide.
Default Settings for Basic Device Parameters
This table lists the default settings for basic device parameters.
Table17:DefaultBasicDeviceParameters
Parameters Default
MOTD banner text User Access Verification
Clock time zone UTC
Changing the Device Hostname
You can change the device hostname displayed in the command prompt from the default (switch) to another
character string.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. {hostname | switchname} name
3. exit
4. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
114

Basic Device Management
Configuring the MOTD Banner
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 {hostname | switchname} name Changes the device hostname. The name argument is
alphanumeric and case sensitive. The default is switch.
Example:
Note
Using the hostname command:
The switchname command performs the same function as
switch(config)# hostname Engineering1 the hostname command. Beginning with Cisco NX-OS
Engineering1(config)#
Release 7.0(3)I7(3), a maximum length of 63 characters
for the switchname is supported.
Using the switchname command:
Engineering1(config)# switchname Engineering2
Engineering2(config)#
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
Engineering2(config)# exit
Engineering2#
Step 4 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
Engineering2# copy running-config startup-config
Configuring the MOTD Banner
You can configure the MOTD to display before the login prompt on the terminal when a user logs in. The
MOTD banner has the following characteristics:
• Maximum of 255 characters per line
• Maximum of 40 lines
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. banner motd delimiting-character message delimiting-character
3. exit
4. (Optional) show banner motd
5. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
115

Basic Device Management
Configuring the MOTD Banner
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 banner motd delimiting-character message Configures the MOTD banner. Do not use the
delimiting-character delimiting-character in the message text.
Example: Note
Do not use " or % as a delimiting character. Ensure that
switch(config)# banner motd #Welcome to the Switch#
switch(config)# when you upgrade to higher releases for the limitation of
this feature.
Note
Beginning from Cisco NX-OS Release 10.1(x), the
following special characters (", %, >, <, ' ', (space), and
ASCII characters < 0x15) are invalid as delimiting
characters. If an existing MOTD banner with these
delimiting characters is edited or a fresh banner is added
with these delimiting characters, the banner is not
configured to the running configuration.
When you upgrade from an earlier release i.e, before 10.x
releases to an existing 10.x releases, there is no impact on
the configuration in the CLI and the configuration will be
the same in the running configuration.
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 4 (Optional) show banner motd Displays the configured MOTD banner.
Example:
switch# show banner motd
Step 5 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
116

Basic Device Management
Configuring the Time Zone
Configuring the Time Zone
You can configure the time zone to offset the device clock time from UTC.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. clock timezone zone-name offset-hours offset-minutes
3. exit
4. (Optional) show clock
5. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 clock timezone zone-name offset-hours offset-minutes Configures the time zone. The zone-name argument is a
3-character string for the time zone acronym (for example,
Example:
PST or EST). The offset-hours argument is the offset from
switch(config)# clock timezone EST -5 0 the UTC and the range is from –23 to 23 hours. The range
for the offset-minutes argument is from 0 to 59 minutes.
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 4 (Optional) show clock Displays the time and time zone.
Example:
switch# show clock
Step 5 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Configuring Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time)
You can configure when summer time, or daylight saving time, is in effect for the device and the offset in
minutes.
117

Basic Device Management
Configuring Summer Time (Daylight Saving Time)
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. clock summer-time zone-name start-week start-day start-month start-time end-week end-day end-month
end-time offset-minutes
3. exit
4. (Optional) show clock detail
5. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 clock summer-time zone-name start-week start-day Configures summer time or daylight saving time.
start-month start-time end-week end-day end-month
The zone-name argument is a three character string for the
end-time offset-minutes
time zone acronym (for example, PST and EST).
Example:
The values for the start-day and end-day arguments are
switch(config)# clock summer-time PDT Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
1 Sunday March 02:00 1 Sunday
Saturday, and Sunday.
November 02:00 60
The values for the start-month and end-month arguments
are January, February, March, April, May, June, July,
August, September, October, November, and December.
The value for the start-time and end-time arguments are in
the format hh:mm.
The range for the offset-minutes argument is from 0 to 1440
minutes.
Step 3 exit Exits global configuration mode.
Example:
switch(config)# exit
switch#
Step 4 (Optional) show clock detail Displays the configured MOTD banner.
Example:
switch(config)# show clock detail
Step 5 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
118

Basic Device Management
Manually Setting the Device Clock
Manually Setting the Device Clock
You can set the clock manually if your device cannot access a remote time source.
Before you begin
Configure the time zone.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. clock set time day month year
2. (Optional) show clock
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 clock set time day month year Configures the device clock.
Example: The format for the time argument is hh:mm:ss.
switch# clock set 15:00:00 30 May 2013 The range for the day argument is from 1 to 31.
Fri May 30 15:14:00 PDT 2013
The values for the month argument are January, February,
March, April, May, June, July, August, September,
October, November, and December.
The range for the year argument is from 2000 to 2030.
Step 2 (Optional) show clock Displays the current clock value.
Example:
switch(config)# show clock
Setting the Clock Manager
You can configure the clock manager to synchronize all the clocks of the components in the Cisco Nexus
device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. clock protocol protocol
2. (Optional) show run clock_manager
119

Basic Device Management
Managing Users
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 clock protocol protocol Configures the clock manager.
Example: The values for the protocol argument are ntp, ptp, and
none.
switch# clock protocol ntp
The following describes the values:
• ntp—Synchronizes clocks with Network Time
Protocol (NTP).
• ptp—Synchronizes clocks with Precision Time
Protocol (PTP) as described by IEEE 1588.
• none—Uses clock set HH:MM:SS to set the supervisor
clock.
Note
When none is used, the clock must be configured.
Note
Once the protocol is configured, the clock must use
that protocol.
Step 2 (Optional) show run clock_manager Displays the configuration of the clock manager.
Example:
switch# show run clock_manager
Managing Users
You can display information about users logged into the device and send messages to those users.
Displaying Information about the User Sessions
You can display information about the user session on the device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. show users
120

Basic Device Management
Sending a Message to Users
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 show users Displays the user sessions.
Example:
switch# show users
Sending a Message to Users
You can send a message to active users currently using the device CLI.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) show users
2. send [session line] message-text
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) show users Displays the active user sessions.
Example:
switch# show users
Step 2 send [session line] message-text Sends a message to all active users or to a specific user.
The message can be up to 80 alphanumeric characters and
Example:
is case sensitive.
switch# send Reloading the device is 10 minutes!
Verifying the Device Configuration
To verify the configuration, use one of the following commands:
121

Basic Device Management
Verifying the Device Configuration
Command Purpose
show running-config [ Displays the contents of the currently running configuration or a subset of that
[exclude] command ] configuration, use the show running-config command in the appropriate mode.
[sanitized] :
• exclude: (Optional) Excludes a specific configuration from the display.
Use the exclude keyword followed by a command argument to exclude a
specific configuration from the display.
• command: (Optional) Displays only a single command or a subset of
commands available under a specified command mode.
• sanitized: (Optional) Displays a sanitized configuration for safe
distribution and analysis.
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.3(2)F, sanitized keyword is
supported on Cisco Nexus 9000 series switches.
show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Note
If Layer 3 based feature configurations are disabled in the running-config, the
show startup-config command does not display them. However, the
configurations remain intact in the startup PSS, until the copy running startup
command is performed.
show time-stamp Displays the timestamp when the running configuration was last changed.
running-config
last-changed
The following example shows sample output of show running-config command with the sanitized keyword.
The sanitized configuration is used to share a configuration without exposing some configuration details.
This option masks the sensitive words in running configuration output with <removed> keyword.
switch# show running-config sanitized
!Command: show running-config sanitized
!Running configuration last done at: Wed Oct 12 09:14:54 2022
!Time: Wed Oct 12 13:52:55 2022
version 10.3(2) Bios:version 07.69
username admin password 5 <removed> role network-admin
copp profile strict
snmp-server user admin network-admin auth md5 <removed> priv aes-128 <removed> localizedV2key
rmon event 1 log trap <removed> description FATAL(1) owner PMON@FATAL
rmon event 2 log trap <removed> description CRITICAL(2) owner PMON@CRITICAL
rmon event 3 log trap <removed> description ERROR(3) owner PMON@ERROR
rmon event 4 log trap <removed> description WARNING(4) owner PMON@WARNING
rmon event 5 log trap <removed> description INFORMATION(5) owner PMON@INFO
--More--
122

9
Using the Device File Systems, Directories, and
Files
This chapter contains these sections:
• About the Device File Systems, Directories, and Files, on page 123
• Guidelines and Limitations, on page 125
• Default Settings for File System Parameters, on page 125
• Configuring the FTP, HTTP, or TFTP Source Interface, on page 125
• Working with Directories, on page 126
• Working with Files, on page 129
• Working with Archive Files, on page 136
• SSD Re-partitioning, on page 139
• Enable or Disable Tech-Support Command, on page 141
• Displaying Tech-support Blocked CLIs, on page 141
• Examples of Using the File System, on page 142
About the Device File Systems, Directories, and Files
This section describes file systems, directories, and files on the Cisco NX-OS device.
File Systems
The syntax for specifying a local file system is filesystem:[//modules/].
123

Directories
This table describes file systems that you can reference on your device.
Table18:FileSystemSyntaxComponents
File System Name Module Description
bootflash sup-active Internal CompactFlash memory
located on the active supervisor
sup-local
module used for storing image files,
configuration files, and other
miscellaneous files. The initial
default directory is bootflash.
sup-standby Internal CompactFlash memory
located on the standby supervisor
sup-remote
module used for storing image files,
configuration files, and other
miscellaneous files.
volatile — Volatile random-access memory
(VRAM) located on a supervisor
module used for temporary or
pending changes.
log — Memory on the active supervisor
that stores logging file statistics.
system — Memory on a supervisor module
used for storing the
running-configuration file.
debug — Memory on a supervisor module
used for debug logs.
Directories
You can create directories on bootflash: and external flash memory (usb1: and usb2:). You can navigate
through these directories and use them for files.
Files
You create and access files on bootflash:, volatile:, usb1:, and usb2: filesystems. You can only access files
on the system: filesystem. You can use the log: filesystem for debug log files.
You can download files, such as the nx-os image file, from remote servers using FTP, Secure Copy (SCP),
Secure Shell FTP (SFTP), and TFTP. You can also copy files from an external server to the device, because
the device can act as an SCP server.
124

Guidelines and Limitations
Guidelines and Limitations
Guidelines and limitations for device file systems, directories, and files are as follows:
• The show tech-support details command cannot be terminated using Ctrl+Z. Instead, use Ctrl+C to
terminate the command.
• Utilize a user with the "network-admin" role to make changes to files in the bootflash.
• Starting with Release 10.5(1), you can automatically detect SSD partition size on the Nexus 9000 to
match the expected configured size. An information syslog is seen during bootup in the show logging
log or show logging nvram commands to indicate the NX-OS Nexus 9000 booted with an unexpected
SSD partitioning size.
%PLATFORM-2-SSD_PARTITION_CHECK: Incorrect <device> partition size detected - please
contact Cisco TAC for additional information
Default Settings for File System Parameters
This table lists the default settings for the file system parameters.
Table19:DefaultFileSystemSettings
Parameters Default
Default filesystem bootflash:
Configuring the FTP, HTTP, or TFTP Source Interface
You can configure the source interface for the File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP), or Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP). This configuration allows you to use the IP address associated
with the configured source interface when copy packets are transferred.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. [no] ip {ftp | http | tftp} source-interface {ethernet slot/port | loopback number}
3. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
125

Working with Directories
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 [no] ip {ftp | http | tftp} source-interface {ethernet Configures the source interface for all FTP, HTTP, or TFTP
slot/port | loopback number} packets.
Example:
switch(config)# ip tftp source-interface ethernet
2/1
Step 3 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config
Working with Directories
This section describes how to work with directories on the Cisco NX-OS device.
Identifying the Current Directory
You can display the directory name of your current directory.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. pwd
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 pwd Displays the name of your current directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Changing the Current Directory
You can change the current directory for file system operations. The initial default directory is bootflash:.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. cd {directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]}
126

Creating a Directory
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 cd {directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]} Changes to a new current directory. The file system, module,
and directory names are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# cd usb1:
Creating a Directory
You can create directories in the bootflash: and flash device file systems.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) cd {directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]}
3. mkdir [filesystem:[//module/]]directory
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) cd {directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]} Changes to a new current directory. The file system, module,
and directory names are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# cd slot0:
Step 3 mkdir [filesystem:[//module/]]directory Creates a new directory. The filesystem argument is case
sensitive. The directory argument is alphanumeric, case
Example:
sensitive, and has a maximum of 64 characters.
switch# mkdir test
Displaying Directory Contents
You can display the contents of a directory.
127

Deleting a Directory
SUMMARY STEPS
1. dir [directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 dir [directory | filesystem:[//module/][directory]] Displays the directory contents. The default is the current
working directory. The file system and directory names are
Example:
case sensitive.
switch# dir bootflash:test
Deleting a Directory
You can remove directories from the file systems on your device.
Before you begin
Ensure that the directory is empty before you try to delete it.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) dir [filesystem :[//module/][directory]]
3. rmdir [filesystem :[//module/]]directory
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) dir [filesystem :[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system, module, and directory names are case sensitive.
Example:
If the directory is not empty, you must delete all the files
switch# dir bootflash:test
before you can delete the directory.
Step 3 rmdir [filesystem :[//module/]]directory Deletes a directory. The file system and directory name are
case sensitive.
Example:
switch# rmdir test
128

Accessing Directories on the Standby Supervisor Module
Accessing Directories on the Standby Supervisor Module
You can access all file systems on the standby supervisor module (remote) from a session on the active
supervisor module. This feature is useful when copying files to the active supervisor modules requires similar
files to exist on the standby supervisor module. To access the file systems on the standby supervisor module
from a session on the active supervisor module, you specify the standby supervisor module in the path to the
file using either filesystem://sup-remote/ or filesystem://sup-standby/.
Working with Files
This section describes how to work with files on the Cisco NX-OS device.
Moving Files
You can move a file from one directory to another directory.
Caution If a file with the same name already exists in the destination directory, that file is overwritten by the moved
file.
You can use the move command to rename a file by moving the file within the same directory.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]]
3. move [filesystem:[//module/][directory /] | directory/]source-filename {{filesystem:[//module/][directory
/] | directory/}[target-filename] | target-filename}
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system and directory name are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# dir bootflash
Step 3 move [filesystem:[//module/][directory /] | Moves a file.
directory/]source-filename
The file system, module, and directory names are case
{{filesystem:[//module/][directory /] |
sensitive.
directory/}[target-filename] | target-filename}
129

Copying Files
Example: The target-filename argument is alphanumeric, case
sensitive, and has a maximum of 64 characters. If the
switch# move test old_tests/test1
target-filename argument is not specified, the filename
defaults to the source-filename argument value.
Copying Files
You can make copies of files, either within the same directory or on another directory. For more information,
see the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS Troubleshooting Guide.
Note Use the dir command to ensure that enough space is available in the target file system. If enough space is not
available, use the delete command to remove unneeded files.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]]
3. copy [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | directory/]source-filename | {filesystem:[//module/][directory/]
| directory/}[target-filename]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system and directory name are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# dir bootflash
Step 3 copy [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | Copies a file. The file system, module, and directory names
directory/]source-filename | are case sensitive. The source-filename argument is
{filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | alphanumeric, case sensitive, and has a maximum of 64
directory/}[target-filename] characters. If the target-filename argument is not specified,
the filename defaults to the source-filename argument value.
Example:
switch# copy test old_tests/test1
130

Copying Files Using HTTP or HTTPS
Copying Files Using HTTP or HTTPS
You can make copies of files from remote server to local device using HTTP or HTTPS.
Note Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.4(3)F, the copy http or copy https command supports TLS version
1.3 and 1.2 on Cisco Nexus switches.
The ignore-certificate keyword allows users to skip the check that the switch performs by default for the
presence of a certificate before initiating an SSL connection with an HTTPS server when using the copy https
command.
Note By default, the switch performs a check for the presence of a certificate before initiating an SSL connection
with an HTTPS server when using the copy https command. However, the ignore-certificate keyword allows
users to skip this check.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]]
3. copy https:// username:password@directory/filename bootflash: vrf management
4. copy http:// directory/filename bootflash: vrf management
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system and directory name are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# dir bootflash
Step 3 copy https:// username:password@directory/filename Copies the specified files from remote server to local device
bootflash: vrf management using https option.
Example:
switch(config)# copy
https://username1:pwd1@192.168.0.1/test.txt
bootflash: vrf management
Step 4 copy http:// directory/filename bootflash: vrf management Copies the specified files from remote server to local device
using http option.
Example:
131

Deleting Files
switch(config)# copy http://192.168.0.1/test.txt
bootflash: vrf management
Deleting Files
You can delete a file from a directory.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]]
2. delete {filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | directory/}filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system and directory name are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# dir bootflash:
Step 2 delete {filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | Deletes a file. The file system, module, and directory names
directory/}filename are case sensitive. The source-filename argument is case
sensitive.
Example:
switch# delete bootflash:old_config.cfg Caution
If you specify a directory, the delete command deletes the
entire directory and all its contents.
Displaying File Contents
You can display the contents of a file.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. show file [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 show file [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename Displays the file contents.
Example:
132

Displaying File Checksums
switch# show file bootflash:test-results
Displaying File Checksums
You can display checksums to check the file integrity.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. show file [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename {cksum | md5sum}
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 show file [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename Displays the checksum or MD5 checksum of the file.
{cksum | md5sum}
Example:
switch# show file bootflash:trunks2.cfg cksum
Compressing and Uncompressing Files
You can compress and uncompress files on your device using Lempel-Ziv 1977 (LZ77) coding.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/]directory]]
2. gzip [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | directory/]filename
3. gunzip [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | directory/]filename .gz
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) dir [filesystem:[//module/]directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system and directory name are case sensitive.
Example:
switch# dir bootflash:
Step 2 gzip [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | directory/]filename Compresses a file. After the file is compressed, it has a .gz
suffix.
Example:
switch# gzip show_tech
133

Displaying the Last Lines in a File
Step 3 gunzip [filesystem:[//module/][directory/] | Uncompresses a file. The file to uncompress must have the
directory/]filename .gz .gz suffix. After the file is uncompressed, it does not have
the .gz suffix.
Example:
switch# gunzip show_tech.gz
Displaying the Last Lines in a File
You can display the last lines of a file.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. tail [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename [lines]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 tail [filesystem:[//module/]][directory/]filename [lines] Displays the last lines of a file. The default number of lines
is 10. The range is from 0 to 80 lines.
Example:
switch# tail ospf-gr.conf
Redirecting show Command Output to a File
You can redirect show command output to a file on bootflash:, volatile:, or a remote server. You can also
specify the format for the command output.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) terminal redirection-mode {ascii | zipped}
2. show-command > [filesystem:[//module/][directory] | [directory /]]filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) terminal redirection-mode {ascii | zipped} Sets the redirection mode for the show command output
for the user session. The default mode is ascii.
Example:
switch# terminal redirection-mode zipped
Step 2 show-command > [filesystem:[//module/][directory] | Redirects the output from a show command to a file.
[directory /]]filename
134

Finding Files
Example:
switch# show tech-support > bootflash:techinfo
Finding Files
You can find the files in the current working directory and its subdirectories that have names that begin with
a specific character string.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
2. (Optional) cd {filesystem:[//module/][directory] | directory}
3. find filename-prefix
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) cd {filesystem:[//module/][directory] | directory} Changes the default directory.
Example:
switch# cd bootflash:test_scripts
Step 3 find filename-prefix Finds all filenames in the default directory and in its
subdirectories beginning with the filename prefix. The
Example:
filename prefix is case sensitive.
switch# find bgp_script
Formatting the Bootflash
Use the format bootflash: CLI command to format the onboard flash memory (bootflash:). If the command
errors out due to the Deactivate all virtual-services and try again error message, destroy
the Guest Shell using the guestshell destroy CLI command and rerun the format bootflash: command, for
example,
switch# sh virtual-service list
Virtual Service List:
Name Status Package Name
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
guestshell+ Activated guestshell.ova
135

Working with Archive Files
switch#
switch# guestshell destroy
You are about to destroy the guest shell and all of its contents. Be sure to save your
work. Are you sure you want to continue? (y/n) [n] y
switch# 2018 Jan 17 18:42:24 switch %$ VDC-1 %$ %VMAN-2-ACTIVATION_STATE: Deactivating
virtual service 'guestshell+'
switch#format bootflash:
Working with Archive Files
The Cisco NX-OS software supports archive files. You can create an archive file, append files to an existing
archive file, extract files from an archive file, and list the files in an archive file.
Creating an Archive File
You can create an archive file and add files to it. You can specify the following compression types:
• bzip2
• gzip
• Uncompressed
The default is gzip.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. tar create {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename [absolute] [bz2-compress] [gz-compress] [remove]
[uncompressed] [verbose] filename-list
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 tar create {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename Creates an archive file and adds files to it. The filename is
[absolute] [bz2-compress] [gz-compress] [remove] alphanumeric, not case sensitive, and has a maximum length
[uncompressed] [verbose] filename-list of 240 characters.
Example: The absolute keyword specifies that the leading backslash
characters (\) should not be removed from the names of the
switch# tar create bootflash:config-archive
gz-compress bootflash:config-file files added to the archive file. By default, the leading
backslash characters are removed.
The bz2-compress, gz-compress, and uncompressed
keywords determine the compression utility used when files
are added, or later appended, to the archive and the
decompression utility to use when extracting the files. If
136

Appending Files to an Archive File
you do not specify an extension for the archive file, the
defaults are as follows:
• For bz2-compress, the extension is .tar.bz2.
• For gz-compress, the extension is .tar.gz.
• For uncompressed, the extension is .tar.
The remove keyword specifies that the Cisco NX-OS
software should delete the files from the file system after
adding them to the archive. By default, the files are not
deleted.
The verbose keyword specifies that the Cisco NX-OS
software should list the files as they are added to the archive.
By default, the files are listed as they are added.
Appending Files to an Archive File
You can append files to an existing archive file on your device.
Before you begin
You have created an archive file on your device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. tar append {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename [absolute] [remove] [verbose] filename-list
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 tar append {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename Adds files to an existing archive file. The archive filename
[absolute] [remove] [verbose] filename-list is not case sensitive.
The absolute keyword specifies that the leading backslash
characters (\) should not be removed from the names of the
files added to the archive file. By default, the leading
backslash characters are removed.
The remove keyword specifies that the Cisco NX-OS
software should delete the files from the filesystem after
adding them to the archive. By default, the files are not
deleted.
The verbose keyword specifies that the Cisco NX-OS
software should list the files as they are added to the archive.
By default, the files are listed as they are added.
137

Extracting Files from an Archive File
Example
This example shows how to append a file to an existing archive file:
switch# tar append bootflash:config-archive.tar.gz bootflash:new-config
Extracting Files from an Archive File
You can extract files to an existing archive file on your device.
Before you begin
You have created an archive file on your device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. tar extract {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename [keep-old] [screen] [to {bootflash: |
volatile:}[/directory-name]] [verbose]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 tar extract {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename Extracts files from an existing archive file. The archive
[keep-old] [screen] [to {bootflash: | filename is not case sensitive.
volatile:}[/directory-name]] [verbose]
The keep-old keyword indicates that the Cisco NX-OS
Example: software should not overwrite files with the same name as
the files being extracted.
switch# tar extract bootflash:config-archive.tar.gz
The screen keyword indicates that the Cisco NX-OS
software should not overwrite files with the same name as
the files being extracted.
The to keyword specifies the target filesystem. You can
include a directory name. The directory name is
alphanumeric, case sensitive, and has a maximum length
of 240 characters.
The verbose keyword specifies that the Cisco NX-OS
software should display the names of the files as they are
extracted.
Displaying the Filenames in an Archive File
You can display the names of the files in an archive files using the tar list command.
tar list {bootflash: | volatile:}archive-filename
The archive filename is not case sensitive.
138

SSD Re-partitioning
switch# tar list bootflash:config-archive.tar.gz
config-file
new-config
SSD Re-partitioning
You can configure SSD re-partitioning to increase the configuration storage space. This also increases the
size of logflash storage. This configuration takes effect after a system reload, and the additional cfg and
logflash storage space may decrease the size of the bootflash.
We recommend that you perform a backup of all the software images, configurations, and personal data before
performing the SSD re-partitioning.
Starting with Release 10.5(1), you can automatically detect SSD partition size on the switch to match the
expected configured size. An information syslog is seen during bootup in the show logging log or show
logging nvram commands to indicate the switch booted with an unexpected SSD partitioning size.
%PLATFORM-2-SSD_PARTITION_CHECK: Incorrect <device> partition size detected - please contact
Cisco TAC for additional information
Extended partitioning scheme is not support for platforms with a 64GB SSD.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. system flash sda resize
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 system flash sda resize Resize persistent storage to new scheme.
Example:
switch# system flash sda resize ?
<CR>
extended Cfg=1GB, logflash=39GB
standard Cfg=64MB, logflash=4|8GB
Example
Following is an example for standard resize:
switch# system flash sda resize standard
!!!! WARNING !!!!
Attempts will be made to preserve drive contents during
the resize operation, but risk of data loss does exist.
Backing up of bootflash, logflash, and running configuration
139

SSD Re-partitioning
is recommended prior to proceeding.
!!!! WARNING !!!!
current scheme is
sda 8:0 0 119.2G 0 disk
|-sda1 8:1 0 512M 0 part
|-sda2 8:2 0 32M 0 part /mnt/plog
|-sda3 8:3 0 128M 0 part /mnt/pss
|-sda4 8:4 0 114.5G 0 part
/isan/vdc_1/virtual-instance/guestshell+/rootfs/bootflash
|-sda5 8:5 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/0
|-sda6 8:6 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/1
`-sda7 8:7 0 4G 0 part /logflash
target scheme is
sda 8:0 0 64G|120GB|250GB 0 disk
|-sda1 8:1 0 512M 0 part
|-sda2 8:2 0 32M 0 part /mnt/plog
|-sda3 8:3 0 128M 0 part /mnt/pss
|-sda4 8:4 0 110.5G 0 part /bootflash
|-sda5 8:5 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/0
|-sda6 8:6 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/1
|_sda7 8:7 0 8G 0 part /logflash
Continue? (y/n) [n] y
A module reload is required for the resize operation to proceed
Please, do not power off the module during this process.
Following is an example for extended resize:
switch# system flash sda resize extended
!!!! WARNING !!!!
Attempts will be made to preserve drive contents during
the resize operation, but risk of data loss does exist.
Backing up of bootflash, logflash, and running configuration
is recommended prior to proceeding.
!!!! WARNING !!!!
current scheme is
sda 8:0 0 119.2G 0 disk
|-sda1 8:1 0 512M 0 part
|-sda2 8:2 0 32M 0 part /mnt/plog
|-sda3 8:3 0 128M 0 part /mnt/pss
|-sda4 8:4 0 110.5G 0 part /bootflash
|-sda5 8:5 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/0
|-sda6 8:6 0 64M 0 part /mnt/cfg/1
`-sda7 8:7 0 8G 0 part /logflash
target scheme is
sda 8:0 0 120GB|250GB 0 disk
|-sda1 8:1 0 512M 0 part
|-sda2 8:2 0 32M 0 part /mnt/plog
|-sda3 8:3 0 128M 0 part /mnt/pss
|-sda4 8:4 0 rem 0 part /bootflash
|-sda5 8:5 0 1.0G 0 part /mnt/cfg/0
|-sda6 8:6 0 1.0G 0 part /mnt/cfg/1
|_sda7 8:7 0 39G 0 part /logflash
140

Enable or Disable Tech-Support Command
Continue? (y/n) [n] y
A module reload is required for the resize operation to proceed
Please, do not power off the module during this process.
Enable or Disable Tech-Support Command
Follow the steps to enable or disable tech-support command.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. system tech-support blocked-commands sample_list
2. clear system tech-support blocked-commands
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 system tech-support blocked-commands sample_list Enables tech-support blocked commands list.
Example: This command blocks the execution of show commands
listed in sample_list from show tech-support details [time-
switch# system tech-support blocked-commands
sample_list optimized], show tech-support all [time- optimized], and
Successfully enabled tech-support blocked commands show tech-support commands. The listed commands
list
would not be executed and skipped for the above show-tech
commands.
Step 2 clear system tech-support blocked-commands Clears tech -support blocked commands list.
Example:
switch# clear system tech-support blocked-commands
Successfully cleared tech-support blocked commands
list
Displaying Tech-support Blocked CLIs
You can find the status of tech support blocked-commands list using the following commands.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. show system tech-support blocked-commands status
2. run bash cat /bootflash/sample_list
141

Examples of Using the File System
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 show system tech-support blocked-commands status Displays the status of tech support blocked commands list.
Example: If the command list is enabled, it shows the file name
switch# show system tech-support blocked-commands
status
Tech-support blocked commands list status: Disabled
switch# show system tech-support blocked-commands
status
Tech-support blocked commands list status: Enabled
Blocked command file: /bootflash/sample_list
Last modified time: Thu Dec 7 07:03:02 2023
Step 2 run bash cat /bootflash/sample_list Displays the blocked-commands file.
Example: • The maximum length of the file can me 128.
switch# run bash cat /bootflash/sample_list
• This is EXEC mode command but the
show version
blocked-commands would be effective as long as the
show inventory
show module file is kept at /bootflash and would persist across all
show tech-support snmp the reloads.
• If the file is removed, blocked-commands would be
enabled but not effective as the file is removed.
• This file needs read permission.
Examples of Using the File System
This section includes examples of how to use the file system on the Cisco NX-OS device.
Accessing Directories on Standby Supervisor Modules
This example shows how to list the files on the standby supervisor module:
switch# dir bootflash://sup-remote
4096 Oct 03 23:55:55 2013 .patch/
...
16384 Jan 01 13:23:30 2011 lost+found/
297054208 Oct 21 18:55:36 2013 n9000-dk9.6.1.2.I1.1.bin
...
Usage for bootflash://sup-remote
1903616000 bytes used
19234234368 bytes free
21137850368 bytes total
This example shows how to delete a file on the standby supervisor module:
142

Moving Files
switch# delete bootflash://sup-remote/aOldConfig.txt
Moving Files
This example shows how to move a file on an external flash device:
switch# move usb1:samplefile usb1:mystorage/samplefile
This example shows how to move a file in the default file system:
switch# move samplefile mystorage/samplefile
Copying Files
This example shows how to copy the file called samplefile from the root directory of the usb1: file system to
the mystorage directory:
switch# copy usb1:samplefile usb1:mystorage/samplefile
This example shows how to copy a file from the current directory level:
switch# copy samplefile mystorage/samplefile
This example shows how to copy a file from the active supervisor module bootflash to the standby supervisor
module bootflash:
switch# copy bootflash:nx-os-image bootflash://sup-2/nx-os-image
This example shows how to overwrite the contents of an existing configuration in NVRAM:
switch# copy nvram:snapshot-config nvram:startup-config
Warning: this command is going to overwrite your current startup-config:
Do you wish to continue? {y/n} [y] y
You can also use the copy command to upload and download files from the bootflash: file system to or from
a FTP, TFTP, SFTP, or SCP server.
Deleting a Directory
You can remove directories from the file systems on your device.
Before you begin
Ensure that the directory is empty before you try to delete it.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) pwd
143

Displaying File Contents
2. (Optional) dir [filesystem :[//module/][directory]]
3. rmdir [filesystem :[//module/]]directory
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) pwd Displays the name of your current default directory.
Example:
switch# pwd
Step 2 (Optional) dir [filesystem :[//module/][directory]] Displays the contents of the current directory. The file
system, module, and directory names are case sensitive.
Example:
If the directory is not empty, you must delete all the files
switch# dir bootflash:test
before you can delete the directory.
Step 3 rmdir [filesystem :[//module/]]directory Deletes a directory. The file system and directory name are
case sensitive.
Example:
switch# rmdir test
Displaying File Contents
This example shows how to display the contents of a file on an external flash device:
switch# show file usb1:test
configure terminal
interface ethernet 1/1
no shutdown
end
show interface ethernet 1/1
This example shows how to display the contents of a file that resides in the current directory:
switch# show file myfile
Displaying File Checksums
This example shows how to display the checksum of a file:
switch# show file bootflash:trunks2.cfg cksum
583547619
This example shows how to display the MD5 checksum of a file:
144

Compressing and Uncompressing Files
switch# show file bootflash:trunks2.cfg md5sum
3b94707198aabefcf46459de10c9281c
Compressing and Uncompressing Files
This example shows how to compress a file:
switch# dir
1525859 Jul 04 00:51:03 2013 Samplefile
...
switch# gzip volatile:Samplefile
switch# dir
266069 Jul 04 00:51:03 2013 Samplefile.gz
...
This example shows how to uncompress a compressed file:
switch# dir
266069 Jul 04 00:51:03 2013 Samplefile.gz
...
switch# gunzip samplefile
switch# dir
1525859 Jul 04 00:51:03 2013 Samplefile
...
Redirecting show Command Output
This example shows how to direct the output to a file on the bootflash: file system:
switch# show interface > bootflash:switch1-intf.cfg
This example shows how to direct the output to a file on external flash memory:
switch# show interface > usb1:switch-intf.cfg
This example shows how to direct the output to a file on a TFTP server:
switch# show interface > tftp://10.10.1.1/home/configs/switch-intf.cfg
Preparing to copy...done
This example shows how to direct the output of the show tech-support command to a file:
switch# show tech-support > Samplefile
Building Configuration ...
switch# dir
1525859 Jul 04 00:51:03 2013 Samplefile
Usage for volatile://
1527808 bytes used
19443712 bytes free
20971520 bytes total
145

Finding Files
Finding Files
This example shows how to find a file in the current default directory:
switch# find smm_shm.cfg
/usr/bin/find: ./lost+found: Permission denied
./smm_shm.cfg
./newer-fs/isan/etc/routing-sw/smm_shm.cfg
./newer-fs/isan/etc/smm_shm.cfg
146

1 0
This chapter contains these sections:
• About Configuration Files, on page 147
• Guidelines and Limitations for Configuration Files, on page 148
• Managing Configuration Files, on page 148
• Configuration Archive and Configuration Log, on page 159
• Verifying the Device Configuration, on page 163
• Examples of Working with Configuration Files, on page 165
About Configuration Files
Configuration files contain the Cisco NX-OS software commands used to configure the features on a Cisco
NX-OS device. Commands are parsed (translated and executed) by the Cisco NX-OS software when the
system is booted (from the startup-config file) or when you enter commands at the CLI in a configuration
mode.
To change the startup configuration file, you can either save the running-configuration file to the startup
configuration using the copy running-config startup-config command or copy a configuration file from a
file server to the startup configuration.
Types of Configuration Files
The Cisco NX-OS software has two types of configuration files, running configuration and startup configuration.
The device uses the startup configuration (startup-config) during device startup to configure the software
features. The running configuration (running-config) contains the current changes that you make to the
startup-configuration file. The two configuration files can be different. You might want to change the device
configuration for a short time period rather than permanently. In this case, you would change the running
configuration by using commands in global configuration mode but not save the changes to the startup
configuration.
To change the running configuration, use the configure terminal command to enter global configuration
mode. As you use the Cisco NX-OS configuration modes, commands generally are executed immediately
and are saved to the running configuration file either immediately after you enter them or when you exit a
configuration mode.
To change the startup-configuration file, you can either save the running configuration file to the startup
configuration or download a configuration file from a file server to the startup configuration.
147

Guidelines and Limitations for Configuration Files
Related Topics
Saving the Running Configuration to the Startup Configuration, on page 148
Downloading the Startup Configuration From a Remote Server, on page 150
Guidelines and Limitations for Configuration Files
Configuration file guidelines and limitations are as follows:
• Beginning with NX-OS 7.0(3)I7(4), the reload timer command is supported to enable a reboot after a
delay of 5 -60 seconds.
Managing Configuration Files
This section describes how to manage configuration files.
Saving the Running Configuration to the Startup Configuration
You can save the running configuration to the startup configuration to save your changes for the next time
you that reload the device.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) show running-config
2. copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) show running-config Displays the running configuration.
Example:
switch# show running-config
Step 2 copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Copying a Configuration File to a Remote Server
You can copy a configuration file stored in the internal memory to a remote server as a backup or to use for
configuring other Cisco NX-OS devices.
148

Downloading the Running Configuration From a Remote Server
SUMMARY STEPS
1. copy running-config scheme://server/[url /]filename
2. copy startup-config scheme://server/[url /]filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 copy running-config scheme://server/[url /]filename Copies the running-configuration file to a remote server.
Example: For the scheme argument, you can enter tftp:, ftp:, scp:,
or sftp:. The server argument is the address or name of the
switch# copy running-config
tftp://10.10.1.1/sw1-run-config.bak remote server, and the url argument is the path to the source
file on the remote server.
The server, url, and filename arguments are case sensitive.
Step 2 copy startup-config scheme://server/[url /]filename Copies the startup-configuration file to a remote server.
Example: For the scheme argument, you can enter tftp:, ftp:, scp:,
or sftp:. The server argument is the address or name of the
switch# copy startup-config
tftp://10.10.1.1/sw1-start-config.bak remote server, and the url argument is the path to the source
file on the remote server.
The server, url, and filename arguments are case sensitive.
Example
This example shows how to copy the configuration file to a remote server:
switch# copy running-config
tftp://10.10.1.1/sw1-run-config.bak
switch# copy startup-config
tftp://10.10.1.1/sw1-start-config.bak
Downloading the Running Configuration From a Remote Server
You can configure your Cisco NX-OS device by using configuration files that you created on another Cisco
NX-OS device and uploaded to a remote server. You then download the file from the remote server to your
device using TFTP, FTP, Secure Copy (SCP), or Secure Shell FTP (SFTP) to the running configuration.
Before you begin
Ensure that the configuration file that you want to download is in the correct directory on the remote server.
Ensure that the permissions on the file are set correctly. Permissions on the file should be set to world-read.
Ensure that your device has a route to the remote server. Your device and the remote server must be in the
same subnetwork if you do not have a router or a default gateway to route traffic between subnets.
149

Downloading the Startup Configuration From a Remote Server
Check connectivity to the remote server using the ping or ping6 command.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. copy scheme://server/[url/]filename running-config
2. (Optional) show running-config
3. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
4. (Optional) show startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 copy scheme://server/[url/]filename running-config Downloads the running-configuration file from a remote
server.
Example:
For the scheme argument, you can enter tftp:, ftp:, scp:,
switch# copy tftp://10.10.1.1/my-config
running-config or sftp:. The server argument is the address or name of the
remote server, and the url argument is the path to the source
file on the remote server.
The server, url, and filename arguments are case sensitive.
Step 2 (Optional) show running-config Displays the running configuration.
Example:
switch# show running-config
Step 3 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Step 4 (Optional) show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Example:
switch# show startup-config
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 143
Downloading the Startup Configuration From a Remote Server
You can configure your Cisco NX-OS device by using configuration files that you created on another Cisco
NX-OS device and uploaded to a remote server. You then download the file from the remote server to your
device using TFTP, FTP, Secure Copy (SCP), or Secure Shell FTP (SFTP) to the startup configuration.
Caution This procedure disrupts all traffic on the Cisco NX-OS device.
150

Downloading the Startup Configuration From a Remote Server
Before you begin
Log in to a session on the console port.
Ensure that the configuration file that you want to download is in the correct directory on the remote server.
Ensure that the permissions on the file are set correctly. Permissions on the file should be set to world-read.
Ensure that your device has a route to the remote server. Your device and the remote server must be in the
same subnetwork if you do not have a router or a default gateway to route traffic between subnets.
Check connectivity to the remote server using the ping or ping6 command.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. write erase
2. reload
3. copy scheme://server/[url /]filename running-config
4. copy running-config startup-config
5. (Optional) show startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 write erase Erases the startup configuration file.
Example:
switch# write erase
Step 2 reload Reloads the Cisco NX-OS device.
Example: Note
Do not use the setup utility to configure the device.
switch# reload
This command will reboot the system. (y/n)? [n]
y
...
Enter the password for "admin": <password>
Confirm the password for "admin": <password>
...
Would you like to enter the basic configuration
dialog (yes/no): n
switch#
Step 3 copy scheme://server/[url /]filename running-config Downloads the running configuration file from a remote
server.
Example:
For the scheme argument, you can enter tftp:, ftp:, scp:,
switch# copy tftp://10.10.1.1/my-config
running-config or sftp:. The server argument is the address or name of the
remote server, and the url argument is the path to the source
file on the remote server.
The server, url, and filename arguments are case sensitive.
151

Copying Configuration Files to an External Flash Memory Device
Step 4 copy running-config startup-config Saves the running configuration file to the startup
configuration file.
Example:
switch# copy running-config
startup-config
Step 5 (Optional) show startup-config Displays the running configuration.
Example:
switch# show startup-config
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 143
Copying Configuration Files to an External Flash Memory Device
You can copy configuration files to an external flash memory device as a backup for later use.
Before you begin
Insert the external Flash memory device into the active supervisor module.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]
2. copy running-config {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename
3. copy startup-config {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/] Displays the files on the external flash memory device.
Example:
switch# dir usb1:
Step 2 copy running-config {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename Copies the running configuration to an external flash
memory device. The filename argument is case sensitive.
Example:
switch# copy running-config
usb1:dsn-running-config.cfg
Step 3 copy startup-config {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename Copies the startup configuration to an external flash memory
device. The filename argument is case sensitive.
Example:
switch# copy startup-config
usb1:dsn-startup-config.cfg
152

Copying the Running Configuration from an External Flash Memory Device
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 143
Copying the Running Configuration from an External Flash Memory Device
You can configure your device by copying configuration files created on another Cisco NX-OS device and
saved to an external flash memory device.
Before you begin
Insert the external flash memory device into the active supervisor module.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]
2. copy {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename running-config
3. (Optional) show running-config
4. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
5. (Optional) show startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/] Displays the files on the external flash memory device.
Example:
switch# dir usb1:
Step 2 copy {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]filename running-config Copies the running configuration from an external flash
memory device. The filename argument is case sensitive.
Example:
switch# copy usb1:dsn-config.cfg running-config
Step 3 (Optional) show running-config Displays the running configuration.
Example:
switch# show running-config
Step 4 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Step 5 (Optional) show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Example:
switch# show startup-config
153

Copying the Startup Configuration From an External Flash Memory Device
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 143
Copying the Startup Configuration From an External Flash Memory Device
You can recover the startup configuration on your device by downloading a new startup configuration file
saved on an external flash memory device.
Before you begin
Insert the external flash memory device into the active supervisor module.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/]
2. copy {usb1: | usb2:}[directory /]filename startup-config
3. (Optional) show startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) dir {usb1: | usb2:}[directory/] Displays the files on the external flash memory device.
Example:
switch# dir usb1:
Step 2 copy {usb1: | usb2:}[directory /]filename startup-config Copies the startup configuration from an external flash
memory device. The filename argument is case sensitive.
Example:
switch# copy usb1:dsn-config.cfg startup-config
Step 3 (Optional) show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Example:
switch# show startup-config
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 143
Copying Configuration Files to an Internal File System
You can copy configuration files to the internal memory as a backup for later use.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. copy running-config [filesystem:][directory/] | [directory/]filename
2. copy startup-config [filesystem:][directory/] | [directory/]filename
154

Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 copy running-config [filesystem:][directory/] | Copies the running-configuration file to internal memory.
[directory/]filename
The filesystem, directory, and filename arguments are case
Example: sensitive.
switch# copy running-config
bootflash:sw1-run-config.bak
Step 2 copy startup-config [filesystem:][directory/] | Copies the startup-configuration file to internal memory.
[directory/]filename
The filesystem, directory, and filename arguments are case
Example: sensitive.
switch# copy startup-config
bootflash:sw1-start-config.bak
Related Topics
Copying Files, on page 130
Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration
Problems, such as memory corruption, can occur that make it necessary for you to recover your configuration
from a backed up version.
Note Each time that you enter a copy running-config startup-config command, a binary file is created and the
ASCII file is updated. A valid binary configuration file reduces the overall boot time significantly. A binary
file cannot be uploaded, but its contents can be used to overwrite the existing startup configuration. The write
erase command clears the binary file.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. write erase
2. reload
3. copy configuration-file running-configuration
4. copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 write erase Clears the current configuration of the switch.
Example:
155

Removing the Configuration for a Missing Module
switch# write erase
Step 2 reload Restarts the device. You will be prompted to provide an
nx-os image file for the device to boot and run.
Example:
switch# reload
Step 3 copy configuration-file running-configuration Copies a previously saved configuration file to the running
configuration.
Example:
Note
switch# copy bootflash:start-config.bak
running-configuration The configuration-file filename argument is case sensitive.
Step 4 copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the start-up
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Removing the Configuration for a Missing Module
When you remove an I/O module from the chassis, you can also remove the configuration for that module
from the running configuration.
Note You can only remove the configuration for an empty slot in the chassis.
Before you begin
Remove the I/O module from the chassis.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) show hardware
2. purge module slot running-config
3. (Optional) copy running-config startup-config
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) show hardware Displays the installed hardware for the device.
Example:
switch# show hardware
Step 2 purge module slot running-config Removes the configuration for a missing module from the
running configuration.
Example:
156

Erasing a Configuration
switch# purge module 3 running-config
Step 3 (Optional) copy running-config startup-config Copies the running configuration to the startup
configuration.
Example:
switch# copy running-config startup-config
Erasing a Configuration
You can erase the configuration on your device to return to the configuration defaults. "Configuration" refers
to the startup configuration as seen in 'show startup'. No other internal application or process states are cleared.
Erase configuration feature is supported on the Nexus 9200-X, Nexus 9300-EX, -FX, -FX2, -FX3, and Nexus
9500 series switches.
You can erase the following configuration files saved in the persistent memory on the device:
• Startup
• Boot
• Debug
The write erase command erases the entire startup configuration, except for the following:
• Boot variable definitions
• The IPv4 and IPv6 configuration on the mgmt0 interface, including the following:
• Address
• Subnet mask
• Default Gateway/Route in the management VRF
To remove the boot variable definitions and the IPv4/IPv6 configuration on the mgmt0 interface, use the write
erase boot command. To remove all application persistency files such as patch rpms, third party rpms,
application configuration in /etc directory other than configuration, use 'install reset'. This command was
added as of the 7.0(3)I6(1) release.
Note When there are multiple IPv6 default routes present in the management VRF, the default route that is displayed
first in the show ipv6 static-route command for the management VRF just before using ‘copy r s’ gets
restored after the write erase and reload.
Note After you enter the write erase command, you must reload the ASCII configuration twice to apply the
breakout configuration.
157

Clearing Inactive Configurations
SUMMARY STEPS
1. write erase [boot | debug]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 write erase [boot | debug] Erases configurations in persistent memory. The default
action erases the startup configuration.
Example:
The boot option erases the boot variable definitions and
switch# write erase the IPv4 configuration on the mgmt0 interface.
Warning: This command will erase the
startup-configuration. The debug option erases the debugging configuration.
Do you wish to proceed anyway? (y/n) [n] y
Note
When you configure multiple IPv6 addresses on mgmt0
interface, the IPv6 address that is displayed first before the
usage of ‘copy r s’ in the show ipv6 interface <intf>
command gets restored on write erase and reload.
Note
The running-configuration file is not affected by this
command.
Clearing Inactive Configurations
You can clear inactive QoS and/or ACL configurations.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. (Optional) show running-config type inactive-if-config
2. clear inactive-config policy
3. (Optional) show inactive-if-config log
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 (Optional) show running-config type inactive-if-config Displays any inactive access control list (ACL) or quality
of service (QoS) configurations.
Example:
The values for the type argument are aclmgr and ipqos.
# show running-config ipqos inactive-if-config
• aclmgr—Displays any inactive configurations for
aclmgr.
158

Configuration Archive and Configuration Log
• ipqos—Displays any inactive configurations for
qosmgr.
Step 2 clear inactive-config policy Clears inactive configurations.
Example: The values for the policy argument are qos and acl.
# clear inactive-config qos The following describes the values:
clear qos inactive config
Inactive if config for QoS manager is saved • qos—Clears inactive QoS configurations.
at/bootflash/qos_inactive_if_config.cfg for vdc
default • acl—Clears inactive ACL configurations.
you can see the log file @ show inactive-if-config
log • acl qos—Clears inactive ACL configurations and
inactive QoS configurations.
Step 3 (Optional) show inactive-if-config log Displays the commands that were used to clear the inactive
configurations.
Example:
# show inactive-if-config log
Configuration Archive and Configuration Log
This section contains information on configuration archive and configuration log.
Information About Configuration Archive
The configuration archive is intended to provide a mechanism to store, organize, and manage an archive of
the configuration files to enhance the configuration rollback capability provided by the configure replace
command. Before configuration archiving was introduced, you could save copies of the running configuration
using the copy running-config destination-url command, storing the replacement file either locally or remotely.
However, this method lacked any automated file management. The configuration replace and configuration
rollback provides the capability to automatically save copies of the running configuration to the configuration
archive. These archived files serve as checkpoint configuration references and can be used by the configure
replace command to revert to the previous configuration states.
The archive config command allows you to save configurations in the configuration archive using a standard
location and filename prefix that is automatically appended with an incremental version number (and optional
timestamp) as each consecutive file is saved. This functionality provides a means for consistent identification
of saved configuration files. You can specify how many versions of the running configuration are kept in the
archive. After the maximum number of files are saved in the archive, the oldest file is automatically deleted
when the next, most recent file is saved. The show archive command displays information for all configuration
files saved in the configuration archive.
The configuration archive, wherein the configuration files are stored and are available for use with the configure
replace command, can be located on the following file systems: bootflash, FTP, and TFTP.
Note The TFTP and FTP for this feature use VRF management.
159

Configuring the Characteristics of the Configuration Archive
Configuring the Characteristics of the Configuration Archive
Before using the archive config command, the configuration archive must be configured. Complete the
following steps to configure the characteristics of the configuration archive:
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. archive
3. path url
4. maximum number
5. time-period minutes
6. write-memory
7. archive config
8. (Optional) show archive log config all
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters the global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
Step 2 archive Enters the archive configuration mode.
Example: Note
This command does not apply to Cisco Nexus 9300-EX,
switch(config)# archive -FX, and -R Series switches.
Step 3 path url Specifies the location and the filename prefix for the files
in the configuration archive.
Example:
• Depending on your hardware platform, the name of
switch(config-archive)# path bootflash:myconfig your file system can be different than the one displayed
in the example.
Note
If a directory is specified in the path instead of the file, the
directory name must be followed by a forward slash as
follows: path flash:/directory/. The forward slash is not
necessary after a filename; it is necessary only when
specifying a directory.
160

Information About Configuration Log
Step 4 maximum number (Optional) Sets the maximum number of archive files of
the running configuration to be saved in the configuration
Example:
archive.
switch(config-archive)# maximum 14
• The number is the maximum number of the archive
files of the running configuration that can be saved in
the configuration archive. The range is 1 to 14. The
default is 10.
Note
Before using this command, you must configure the path
to specify the location and filename prefix for the files in
the configuration archive.
Step 5 time-period minutes (Optional) Sets the time increment for automatically saving
an archive file of the current running configuration in the
Example:
configuration archive.
switch(config-archive)# time-period 10
• The minutes argument specifies how often, in minutes,
to automatically save an archive file of the current
running configuration in the configuration archive.
Note
Before using this command, you must configure the path
command to specify the location and filename prefix for
the files in the configuration archive.
Step 6 write-memory Enables the command. It is disabled by default. Entering
this command causes an archive to occur when the
Example:
command copy r s is performed.
switch(config-archive)# write-memory
Step 7 archive config Saves the current running configuration file to the
configuration archive.
Example:
Note
switch(config-archive)# archive config
You must configure the path before using the archive
config command.
Step 8 (Optional) show archive log config all Displays the configuration log entries for all the users.
Example:
switch# show archive log config all
Information About Configuration Log
The configuration change logging tracks the changes that are made to the running configuration by using the
data in the accounting log. This configuration log tracks the changes that are initiated only through the CLI.
Only complete commands that result in the invocation of action routines are logged. The following types of
entries are not logged:
161

Displaying Configuration Log Entries
• Commands that result in a syntax error message
• Partial commands that invoke the device help system
The configuration log tracks the changes that are initiated only through the CLI. For each configuration
command that is executed, the following information is logged:
• A configuration change sequence number
• The line from which the command was executed
• The name of the user that executed the command
• The command that was executed
You can display the information from the configuration log by using the show archive log config all command
For each configuration command that is executed, the following information is logged:
• The command that was executed
• The name of the user that executed the command
• A configuration change sequence number
You can display the information from the configuration log by using the show archive log config command.
Displaying Configuration Log Entries
To display the configuration log entries, the configuration change logging provides the show archive log
config all command.
SUMMARY STEPS
1. switch# show archive log config all
2. switch# show archive log config user username
3. switch# show archive log config user username first-index start-number [last-index end-number ]
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Step 1 switch# show archive log config all
Displays the configuration log entries for all users
Example:
switch# show archive log config all
INDEX LINE USER LOGGED COMMAND
1 console0 user01 | logging console 1
2 console0 user01 | logging monitor 2
3 console0 user02 | system default switchport shutdown
162

Verifying the Device Configuration
4 console0 user02 | interface mgmt0
5 console0 user02 | no shutdown
Step 2 switch# show archive log config user username
Displays the configuration log entries for the specified username.
Example:
The following example displays the configuration log entries for a specified username.
switch# show archive log config user user02
INDEX LINE USER LOGGED COMMAND
3 console0 user02 | system default switchport shutdown
4 console0 user02 | interface mgmt0
5 console0 user02 | no shutdown
Step 3 switch# show archive log config user username first-index start-number [last-index end-number ]
Displays the configuration log entries by the index numbers. If you specify a number for the optional last-index, all the
log entries with the index numbers in the range from the value entered for the start-number through the end-number for
the specified user are displayed.
Example:
The following example displays the configuration log entry numbers 4 and 5 for a user with the username, user02. The
range for the first-index and last-index is 1 to 2000000000.
switch# show archive log config user user02 first-index 4 last-index 5
Last Log cleared/wrapped time is : Wed Oct 19 00:53:08 2016
INDEX LINE USER LOGGED COMMAND
4 console0 user02 | interface mgmt0
5 console0 user02 | no shutdown
Verifying the Device Configuration
To verify the configuration, use one of the following commands:
163

Verifying the Device Configuration
Command Purpose
show running-config [ Displays the contents of the currently running configuration or a subset of that
[exclude] command ] configuration, use the show running-config command in the appropriate mode.
[sanitized] :
• exclude: (Optional) Excludes a specific configuration from the display.
Use the exclude keyword followed by a command argument to exclude a
specific configuration from the display.
• command: (Optional) Displays only a single command or a subset of
commands available under a specified command mode.
• sanitized: (Optional) Displays a sanitized configuration for safe
distribution and analysis.
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.3(2)F, sanitized keyword is
supported on Cisco Nexus 9000 series switches.
show startup-config Displays the startup configuration.
Note
If Layer 3 based feature configurations are disabled in the running-config, the
show startup-config command does not display them. However, the
configurations remain intact in the startup PSS, until the copy running startup
command is performed.
show time-stamp Displays the timestamp when the running configuration was last changed.
running-config
last-changed
The following example shows sample output of show running-config command with the sanitized keyword.
The sanitized configuration is used to share a configuration without exposing some configuration details.
This option masks the sensitive words in running configuration output with <removed> keyword.
switch# show running-config sanitized
!Command: show running-config sanitized
!Running configuration last done at: Wed Oct 12 09:14:54 2022
!Time: Wed Oct 12 13:52:55 2022
version 10.3(2) Bios:version 07.69
username admin password 5 <removed> role network-admin
copp profile strict
snmp-server user admin network-admin auth md5 <removed> priv aes-128 <removed> localizedV2key
rmon event 1 log trap <removed> description FATAL(1) owner PMON@FATAL
rmon event 2 log trap <removed> description CRITICAL(2) owner PMON@CRITICAL
rmon event 3 log trap <removed> description ERROR(3) owner PMON@ERROR
rmon event 4 log trap <removed> description WARNING(4) owner PMON@WARNING
rmon event 5 log trap <removed> description INFORMATION(5) owner PMON@INFO
--More--
164

Examples of Working with Configuration Files
Examples of Working with Configuration Files
This section includes examples of working with configuration files.
Copying Configuration Files
This example shows how to overwrite the contents of an existing configuration in NVRAM:
switch# copy nvram:snapshot-config nvram:startup-config
Warning: this command is going to overwrite your current startup-config.
Do you wish to continue? {y/n} [y] y
Note This command does not apply to Cisco Nexus 9300-EX Series switches.
This example shows how to copy a running configuration to the bootflash: file system:
switch# copy system:running-config bootflash:my-config
Backing Up Configuration Files
This example shows how to back up the startup configuration to the bootflash: file system (ASCII file):
switch# copy startup-config bootflash:my-config
This example shows how to back up the startup configuration to the TFTP server (ASCII file):
switch# copy startup-config tftp://172.16.10.100/my-config
This example shows how to back up the running configuration to the bootflash: file system (ASCII file):
switch# copy running-config bootflash:my-config
Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration
To roll back your configuration to a snapshot copy of a previously saved configuration, you need to perform
the following steps:
1. Clear the current running image with the write erase command.
2. Restart the device with the reload command.
3. Copy the previously saved configuration file to the running configuration with the copy configuration-file
running-configuration command.
4. Copy the running configuration to the start-up configuration with the copy running-config startup-config
command.
165

Rolling Back to a Previous Configuration
166

1 1
Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
This chapter contains these sections:
• Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector Overview, on page 167
• Guidelines and Limitations, on page 168
• Configuring Nexus Switch to Intersight, on page 168
• Verifying NXDC configuration and status, on page 170
• Claiming Nexus Switches in Intersight, on page 171
Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector Overview
Devices are connected to the Cisco Intersight portal through a Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
(NXDC) that is embedded in the Cisco NX-OS image of each system.
Beginning with Cisco NX-OS Release 10.2(3)F, the Device Connector on NX-OS feature is supported which
provides a secure way for the connected devices to send information and receive control instructions from
the Cisco Intersight portal, using a secure Internet connection.
The NXDC is enabled by default on all Cisco Nexus series switches and it starts at boot by default, and
attempts to connect to the cloud service. Once a secure connection has been established and the device connector
is registered with the Intersight service, the device connector collects detailed inventory, health status and
sends the adoption telemetry data to the Intersight database. Inventory is refreshed once in a day.
The NXDC supports the AutoUpdate feature where it gets automatically updated to the latest version through
a refresh by the Intersight service when you connect to Intersight.
The NXDC also supports the Connected TAC feature to collect tech-support data from devices that are claimed.
The NXDC feature integration was done to resolve the standalone Nexus switches with the following
capabilities:
• It provides fast and quick solution to gather basic data from standalone Nexus switches.
• It stores and manages private data securely in the cloud.
• It is flexible for future capabilities and enables the ability to upgrade NXDC.
167

Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
Guidelines and Limitations
Guidelines and Limitations
NXDC has the following guidelines and limitations:
• You must configure DNS.
• You must ensure svc.intersight.com gets resolved and allow outbound initiated HTTPS connections on
port 443.
If a proxy is required for an HTTPS connection to svc.intersight.com, the proxy can be configured in the
NXDC user interface. For proxy configuration, see Configuring NXDC.
Configuring Nexus Switch to Intersight
By default the Nexus switch attempts to connect to Cisco's Intersight. If your Nexus device does not have the
ability to reach Intersight, a specific proxy for Intersight must be configured.
Note By default the Intersight feature (also known as Nexus Device Connector) is enabled.
To configure the optional parameters for the Intersight feature, follow the below steps:
168

Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
Configuring Nexus Switch to Intersight
SUMMARY STEPS
1. configure terminal
2. (Optional) intersight proxy <proxy-name> port <proxy-port>
3. (Optional) intersight use-vrf <vrf-name>
4. (Optional) intersight trustpoint <trustpoint-label> [host-name]
5. (Optional) intersight source-interface <interface>
6. (Optional) no feature intersight
DETAILED STEPS
Procedure
Command or Action Purpose
Step 1 configure terminal Enters global configuration mode.
Example:
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)#
Step 2 (Optional) intersight proxy <proxy-name> port Configures the proxy server for Intersight connection.
<proxy-port>
• proxy-name: IPv4 or IPv6 address or DNS name of
Example: proxy server.
switch(config)# intersight proxy
• proxy-port: Proxy port number. The range is 1-65535.
proxy.esl.cisco.com port 8080
The default value is 8080.
Note
If Proxy is enabled with the smart license configuration on
Cisco Nexus switches, the NXDC inherits this
configuration and attempts to connect with Cisco Intersight
Cloud.
Step 3 (Optional) intersight use-vrf <vrf-name> Modifies the VRF of NXDC, if connectivity is through the
specified VRF.
Example:
switch(config)# intersight use-vrf blue Note
By default Intersight is started in management
VRF/namespace.
Step 4 (Optional) intersight trustpoint <trustpoint-label> Configures certificates for Intersight connection.
[host-name]
trustpoint-label: Crypto ca truspoint label. For more
Example: information refer to Cisco Nexus 9000 Series NX-OS
Security Configuration Guide.
switch(config)# intersight trustpoint test test
Step 5 (Optional) intersight source-interface <interface> Configures the source interface for communication.
Example:
switch(config)# intersight source-interface mgmt
0
169

Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
Verifying NXDC configuration and status
Step 6 (Optional) no feature intersight Disables the Intersight process and removes all NXDC
configuration and logs store.
Example:
switch(config)# no feature intersight
Verifying NXDC configuration and status
To verify the NXDC configuration, use the following Bash commands:
To display the NXDC configuration and status information, enter one of the following commands:
Command Purpose
show system device-connector Displays the device Serial Number, Token and Intersight claim state.
claim-info
Note
Token will be displayed when connectivity to Intersight is established
and the device is not claimed. In the scenario that a device is claimed,
a Token will not be displayed and the message section will display
"Cannot fetch claim code for already claimed device".
Duration for valid token is reported in seconds.
show system device-connector log Displays device connector log messages.
[dc|dcgrpc|cnmi|nae|sim|compliance]
The following example shows sample output for the show system device-connector claim-info command
before device is claimed:
Switch# show system device-connector claim-info
SerialNumber: FDO23021ZUJ
SecurityToken: 9FFD4FA94DCD
Duration: 599
Message:
Claim state: Not Claimed
The following example shows sample output for the show system device-connector claim-info command after
device is claimed:
Switch# show system device-connector claim-info
SerialNumber: ABCD12345E6
SecurityToken:
Duration: 0
Message: Cannot fetch claim code for already claimed device
Claim state: Claimed
Claim time: 2024-02-18T12:00:01.77Z
Claimed by: user@cisco.com
Account: dc- customer
Site name:
Site ID:
170

Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
Claiming Nexus Switches in Intersight
Claiming Nexus Switches in Intersight
To get started with using the features and functionality, you must claim the switch in an Intersight User
Interface (UI).
To claim the switch in Intersight UI, use the following procedure:
• Claim Nexus switches using Intersight UI.
To claim the connected devices in Intersight, follow the process as described in Target Claim.
• Claim multiple Nexus switches with Ansible playbook.
To claim multiple Nexus switches in an automated manner using Ansible, check the details in the Ansible
playbook.
171

Nexus Switch Intersight Device Connector
Claiming Nexus Switches in Intersight
172

I N D E X
A copy system 165
copy tftp 150–151
alias 83–84 copy usb1 | usb2 153
B D
banner motd 115–116 databits 106–107
binary-location 51, 53 debug 124
bootflash 124 diff-clean 91
diff-clean all-sessions 92
C diff-clean all-users 92
dir 129–130, 133
cd 126–127, 135 dir usb1 152–154
clear inactive-config 158–159 dir usb2 152–154
clear line 110
cli alias name 83–84 E
cli var name 81–82
clock 87 echo 86
clock protocol none 119–120 echo backslash-interpret 86
clock protocol ntp 119–120 egrep 92
clock protocol ptp 119–120 email 99–100
clock set 87, 119–120 end 73
clock summer-time 118 exec-timeout 106–108
clock timezone 117
configure 78
F
configuring devices 25
using POAP 25 find 135
copy 130, 151, 155–156 from 99–100
copy {usb1 | usb2} 154
copy ftp 150–151
G
copy nvram 165
copy running-config 154–155
grep 92
copy running-config {usb1 | usb2} 152
gunzip 133–134
copy running-config ftp 149
gzip 133
copy running-config scp 149
copy running-config sftp 149
copy running-config tftp 149 H
copy scp 150–151
hostname 114–115
copy sftp 150–151
copy startup-config 154–155
copy startup-config {usb1 | usb2} 152 I
copy startup-config ftp 149
copy startup-config scp 149 interface 71–72
copy startup-config sftp 149 ip {ftp | http | tftp} source-interface {ethernet | loopback} 125–126
copy startup-config tftp 149
IN-1

INDEX
L show inactive-if-config log 158–159
show interface brief 103
less 93 show line 111
line console 106–107 show line console 107–108
line vty 108–109 show run clock_manager 119–120
log 124 show running-config 148, 150, 153, 158
show startup-config 49, 122, 151–154, 164
M show terminal 111
show users 110–111, 120–121
mkdir 127 sleep 86
move 129 slot 98
smtp-host 99–100
smtp-port 99–100
P
sort 93
speed 107
parity {even | none | odd} 106–107
ssh name 91
persist 97
stopbits 107
personality 51–52
switchname 114–115
personality backup 51
system 124
ping 150–151
ping6 150–151
POAP 25, 46 T
setting up the network environment 46
pop 72 tail 134
provisioning devices 25 tar append bootflash 137
using POAP 25 tar append volatile 137
purge module 156 tar create bootflash 136
push 72 tar create volatile 136
pwd 126–127, 130–131, 135 tar extract {bootflash | volatile} 138
tar list bootflash 138
tar list volatile 138
R
terminal alias 84
terminal color 98
reload 151, 155–156, 165
terminal dont-ask 97
reply-to 99–100
terminal edit-mode vi 96
rmdir 128, 144
terminal output xml 91
run-script 85
terminal redirection-mode ascii 134
terminal redirection-mode zipped 134
S
track 51–52
sed 93
send 121 V
session-limit 109
volatile 124
set 87
vrf management 99–100
show 88–89, 91, 93–94, 101
show banner motd 115–116
show cli history 95–96 W
show cli variables 81–82
show clock 117, 119 where detail 79
show clock detail 118 write erase 151, 155, 157, 165
show email 99–100 write erase boot 158
show file 132–133 write erase debug 158
show hardware 156
IN-2
