Cisco Data Center Networking AI/ML
AI/ML Networking with Cisco Nexus 9000
Cisco® data center networking with Cisco Nexus® 9000 Series
Switches and the Nexus Dashboard operations and automation
platform provides the interplay of cutting-edge silicon,
hardware, software, optics, and management tools to deliver
high bandwidth, lossless, and low latency AI/ML networks.

Overview Benefits
data center network delivers optimal bandwidth,
latency, congestion management mechanisms,
The applications of AI in areas of finance,
telemetry, visibility, and automation needed to • Build a non-blocking, high
autonomous systems, healthcare, and
build an AI/ML network fabric. Using the Cisco bandwidth, low latency, lossless
research have taken center stage in modern
Nexus 9000 series, AI/ML fabrics can be tailored ethernet AI/ML network with Cisco
data centers. These require AI-capable
to build based on the desired technology, Nexus 9000 series’ portfolio of
systems that are capable of analyzing vast
workload, and application with scalability ranging high-speed switches.
amounts of data, training models, and making
from few tens to thousands of GPU clusters,
decisions. Designing an AI-optimized data • Simplify Day 0 provisioning and
while providing power efficient, lossless, and low
center requires seamless collaboration of automation of AI/ML networks with
job-completion times networks.
silicon, systems, software, networking, and the Cisco Nexus Dashboard Fabric
operational management tools. This rapid pace Built on Cisco Cloud Scale or Silicon One Controller.
of technological advancements requires high technology, and an array of Cisco Nexus 9000
• Granular visibility to congestion
infrastructure costs, data quality, scalability, and series switches with industry-leading Cisco
score, real-time telemetry, and
the need for data centers capable of delivering NX-OS software and the Cisco Nexus Dashboard
troubleshooting through Nexus
these with operational simplicity. operations and automation platform, Cisco’s data
Dashboard Insights.
center solutions are easy to automate and deploy
By combining silicon, hardware, software,
for AI training and inference models. • Scale AI/ML fabric from tens to
management tools, and optics, the Cisco Nexus
thousands of GPUs with Cisco
validated design for data center
networking.
Cisco Nexus Dashboard Technology outcomes delivered
• Ensure seamless interoperability
400/800G Ethernet transition
High-bandwidth fabrics with reduced footprint and energy savings and consistent performance with
C S Cis Se ics re oc ier o i N se N s e S xe Sw ux wi su tci s t 9 hc 90 eh 00 se 00 s 0 RDMA over Ethernet (RoCEv2) leading GPU vendors. Cisco is
Lossless network (PFC + ECN)
a founding member of the Ultra
Non blocking network
Ethernet Consortium (UEC), and
Low Latency, Congestion management
RoCEv2 switch fabric
Cisco Nexus 9000 platforms are
AI fabric templates, AI analytics, telemetry, congestion scores
forward compatible with future
Validated designs for networks and ecosystem partners
GPUs Storage
AI/ML Blueprint specifications.
Lossless network with uniform traffic distribution PFC: Priority Flow Control
ECN: Explicit Congestion Notification
Figure 1. Transform Infrastructure for AI enterprise data centers
©© 22002241 CCiissccoo aanndd//oorr iittss aaffiffilliiaatteess.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..

Trends and challenges
Using Cisco Nexus 9000 solutions for existing For large GPU clusters, a spine-leaf network
data center and AI/ML fabric enables leveraging is the optimal design because of its consistent
The applications, workloads, and size of AI/ML the same silicon, hardware, software, and and predictable performance and scalability.
clusters are influenced by factors such as the management tools with the ability to scale from The edge switchports (that connect to the
size of datasets, desired job completion times, tens to thousands of GPUs. In addition, the GPU NIC ports) should operate at the highest
type of model, and the Total Cost of Ownership forward compatibility with UEC standards allows available speeds, such as 400 GbE on the
(TCO). standardization of the AI/ML fabric transport Cisco Nexus 9364D-GX2A switch. The core
protocols. switchports between the leaf switches and
These considerations lead to challenges that
spine switches should match or exceed the
impact deployment, adoption, and success of
How it works
speed at which the GPUs connect to the
AI/ML fabrics:
network. The inter-GPU network should not
• Silos in network fabric: Within a data center, • Role of GPU: The complexity of be oversubscribed. For example, on a 64-port
this could lead to various designs of data machine learning algorithms, collective leaf switch, if 32 ports connect to the GPUs,
center networks for AI-specific and non-AI communication, and Remote Direct Memory the rest 32 ports should connect to the spine
fabrics. Relying on proprietary protocols Access (RDMA) operations remain within switches.
such as InfiniBand for AI fabric would require the end devices hosting the GPUs. The
• Handling network congestion: Cisco Nexus
the use of specialized hardware, software, network remains unaware of these details
Series Switches isolate a faulty GPU Network
management tools, training of resources, or and transfers the UDP/IP packets to the
Interface Card (NIC) port that remains
personnel trained in this new technology. destination using its standard forwarding
unresponsive and unable to receive traffic
mechanism. Although this simplifies the
• Evolving needs of AI/ML networks: As continuously for a longer duration. After some
networks for AI/ML infrastructure, the
datasets grow, scaling of AI models across time, if the GPU NIC recovers, the switch
continuous synchronization of the GPU states
multiple clusters for compute, networking, detects this change and allows this NIC port to
while calculating patterns in vast data sets
and storage becomes necessary. This communicate via the network by de-isolating
create unprecedented traffic patterns. For
operational complexity leads to higher costs it. Both the isolation of an unresponsive NIC
example, the GPUs may send and receive
in power, cooling, and maintenance. port and the de-isolation of a healthy NIC port
traffic at line rate.
are automatically performed by the Nexus
• Integration with existing data center:
• Designing a network for AI: Smaller GPU switches. This feature, called Priority Flow
Integrating AI/ML networks with existing
clusters can use a single-switch network. Control Watchdog (PFC Watchdog), eliminates
software ecosystems, databases, tools,
For example, a 64-GPU cluster can be the source of congestion from the network,
and processes can result in additional
interconnected using the Cisco Nexus thereby ensuring other GPUs in the networks
development costs.
9364D-GX2A switch. are not affected by the issue.

Cisco Nexus Dashboard simplifies configuring • Managing job completion time: QoS features of Cisco Nexus Switches allow prioritizing or using
the lossless networks by enabling PFC on dedicated queues for small-sized response or acknowledgment packets so that they are not delayed
all network ports using a single check box. while waiting behind the large-sized data packets in the same queue. Multiple no-drop queues
It has ready-made templates with optimized or priority queues can also be used based on the traffic profile from the GPU NICs. Cisco Nexus
buffer thresholds to fine-tune the sending Dashboard automatically detects unusual spikes in network delay and flags them as anomalies. This
of the Pause frames by the switch ports latency information is provided at a flow granularity and correlated with other relevant events such
during congestion. Further optimizations as bursts and errors. Getting real-time visibility into the network hot spots gives enough insights to
can be applied uniformly across the network a user to take corrective actions like adjusting the QoS thresholds, increasing network capacity, or
by changing the templates with refined using an improved load-balancing scheme. To apply these actions uniformly across the network,
thresholds. Nexus Dashboard offers customizable templates and full-featured APIs.
Cisco Nexus Dashboard simplifies the
Use cases
interpretation of various congestion
symptoms like the number of Pause frames
Table 1. Use cases
sent or received, the number of Explicit
Congestion Notification (ECN) marked Industry name Use case description
packets, and traffic sent and received on
a link, by calculating a congestion score • Process vast amount of data from sensors
Autonomous driving
and an automatic assignment to mild,
• Low latency to make quick decisions
moderate, or severe categories. The
automatic correlations in Nexus Dashboard
• Chatbots to handle inquiries from customers
eliminate long troubleshooting cycles by
E-commerce
accurately detecting the source and cause of • Analyze consumer behavior and make recommendations of
congestion. This real-time visibility simplifies products or services
the buffer fine-tuning by showing fabric-wide
congestion trends and providing the ability to • Reduce congestion and provide faster service
Service providers
consistently apply the fine-tuned thresholds
• Identify potential network issues and downtime
across the network.
• Quant based fast training networks
Finance
• Process transactions and market trend with low latency

Services
Embracing new solutions and scalability is key to de-risking AI infrastructure. The AI accelerator
ecosystem is evolving, with innovations in GPUs, CPUs, and specialized AI hardware. Avoiding
Cisco offers a wide range of services to help proprietary technologies enhances flexibility and reduces costs.
accelerate your success in deploying and
For instance, using Ethernet for GPU interconnections allows adaptation to new advancements. Cisco
optimizing the Cisco Nexus 9000 solution
Nexus 9000, certified to support the Intel® Gaudi 2 AI accelerator, exemplifies this. Cisco tested
for your AI/ML data center networks. The
Gaudi 2 servers with Nexus 9000 Ethernet fabric, ensuring performance and compatibility. The team
innovative Cisco Services offerings are
conducted months of extensive testing with Cisco Nexus 9364D-GX2A switches on the network and
delivered through a unique combination
Intel Gaudi 2 accelerators on the compute. Documented configurations provide a deployment guide,
of people, processes, tools, and partners
resulting in high performance and reliability. With this, Cisco is helping customers expedite their
and are focused on helping you increase
return on investments by validating GPU clusters for enterprise data center environments.
operational efficiency and improve your data
center network. Cisco Advanced Services
Cisco Capital
uses an architecture-led approach to help
you align your data center infrastructure with Financing to help you achieve your objectives
your business goals and achieve long-term
Cisco Capital® can help you acquire the technology you need to achieve your objectives and stay
value. Cisco SMARTnet™ Service helps you
competitive. We can help you reduce CapEx. Accelerate your growth. Optimize your investment
resolve mission-critical problems with direct
dollars and ROI. Cisco Capital financing gives you flexibility in acquiring hardware, software,
access at any time to Cisco network experts
services, and complementary third-party equipment. And there’s just one predictable payment.
and award-winning resources.
Cisco Capital is available in more than 100 countries. Learn more.
The Cisco Advantage
Learn more
The wide array of Cisco Nexus 9000 fixed and modular series high-speed switches, combined with
• Cisco AI/ML Blueprint for data center its industry-leading Cisco NX-OS software and Cisco Nexus Dashboard operations and automation
networks platform, offers the simplest and most efficient way to deploy, scale, and analyze data center fabrics
for AI training and inference models. With focus on speed, power efficiency, and operational costs,
• Cisco data center networking
Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches enable organizations to build data centers that meet the evolving
• Cisco Nexus Dashboard requirements of current and future AI workloads.
• Intel Gaudi Platform | Intel® Gaudi® 2 AI
Accelerator
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other
countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
© 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R) C22-4698201-00 09/24
