Data sheet
Cisco public
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 1 of 12

Contents
Cisco Nexus One 3
Product overview 3
Features and benefits 5
Prominent feature 5
Platform support 9
Licensing 9
Product sustainability 11
Cisco and partner services 11
Cisco Capital 12
For more information 12
Document history 12
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 2 of 12

Cisco Nexus One
Cisco® Nexus® One is the next-generation data center networking architecture that unifies every fabric —
AI, enterprise, cloud, storage, media, and edge — into a single consistent, interoperable system. Nexus
One is about standardization, flexibility, and choice. Nexus One embraces and extends what you run today;
nothing is ripped out or replaced.
The architecture spans four layers: silicon (Cisco Cloud Scale, Cisco Silicon One®, NVIDIA Spectrum-X, and
Ethernet), systems (Cisco N9000 Series Switches as the universal hardware anchor, with industry-leading
Cisco Optics), software (Cisco NX-OS, Cisco ACI®, and SONiC), and a consistent operating model (Cisco
Nexus Dashboard on-premises or Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric™ cloud SaaS). Security is fused into every layer,
and operations are simplified for every operator — human, Network as Code for automation, or AI agent.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric is the transformative cloud-managed operating model for Cisco Nexus One. It is a
network fabric data-center solution, delivered as a service, that enables customers to easily design,
deploy, manage, and scale multiple fabrics globally with a minimum of expertise.
Product overview
As the cloud-managed operating model for Cisco Nexus One, Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric enables customers
to easily design, deploy, and scale any number of data-center fabrics located anywhere. Delivered as a
fabric-as-a-service solution, it reinvents and simplifies every step of IT operations, ensuring repeatable
and predictable outcomes.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric is a cloud-managed vertical stack solution consisting of purpose-built hardware,
software, a cloud controller, day-2 operations, automation, and Cisco support that eliminates complexity.
IT, application and DevOps teams manage the full lifecycle of designing, ordering, deploying, validating,
monitoring, and scaling fabrics without requiring deep networking or operational expertise.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric vertical stack solution
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 3 of 12

Customers log in to Nexus Hyperfabric to begin building a validated fabric design tailored to their desired
host and port capacity, oversubscription, and environmental considerations such as cabling and power.
Customers then define the Layer-2 and Layer-3 networks the fabric exposes to hosts, maps them to ports,
and specifies the routing needed to connect the fabric to the rest of the network. Nexus Hyperfabric is
integrated with Cisco’s ordering tools to guarantee there are no errors when converting the components in
a design into a bill of materials. When the Cisco 6000 Series, Cisco N9100 and N9300 series switches
arrive on site and are deployed, they automatically connect to the cloud, to be claimed and provisioned by
the cloud controller with a zero-touch plug-and-play approach. This process takes just minutes and results
in a fully operational network fabric. Assertion-based monitoring of availability and reliability of the fabric
and connected resources are continuously verified, and the root cause of any issue detected is
immediately identified. Later, if it is necessary to change the capacity or shape of the design, customers
can modify the in-flight design, approve the changes, and repeat the design-to-deploy process. Nexus
Hyperfabric provides guidance for all the physical changes needed to migrate the old topology to the new
desired state, including cabling adjustments, and it reconfigures itself automatically.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric lifecycle
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 4 of 12

Features and benefits
Table 1. Feature and benefits
Feature Benefit
Cloud controller managed by Cisco Manage any number of data-center network fabrics globally with a minimum of
expertise
Ease of use Designed for use by IT generalists and application and data-science teams; no deep
network or operational expertise required
Cloud-delivered automation After the Layer-2, Layer-3, and upstream routing services have been defined, the
rest of the system is then automatically provisioned and becomes operative.
Edge and remote fabrics Operate fabrics of one or more switches located anywhere globally, with no local
management required
Designer Guides the process of designing the topology, exposed network services, and
upstream route peering, then generates a bill of materials, a cabling plan, and a
ready-to-operate blueprint
Multi-site interconnects Nexus Hyperfabric Multi-Site Interconnect enables interconnection of multiple
fabrics, extending networks across them for consistent, seamless connectivity
across geographically dispersed data centers, while preserving operational isolation.
Automated lifecycle management Switch software reliably and automatically upgraded according to your schedule and
chassis order
Monitor unmanaged Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric now includes the capability to monitor unmanaged NX-OS
NX-OS switches switches.
API first DevOps tools such as HashiCorp Terraform and Red Hat Ansible integrate once to
the Nexus Hyperfabric cloud controller, so all your fabrics are provisioned and
managed from a single API endpoint.
AgenticOps Cisco Cloud Control is Cisco's unified, AI-native management platform that provides
a single operational interface for managing, operating, and optimizing Cisco
networking, security, observability, and collaboration products, enabling cross-
domain visibility, automation, and AI-driven insights without replacing existing
controllers.
Prominent feature
Cloud-managed solution
A cloud controller operated by Cisco manages your fabrics regardless of where they are geographically
located and eliminates the need to deploy and manage your own on-premises provisioning and monitoring
tools. The cloud controller is a scalable, distributed, multitenant service hosted in the public cloud. Starting
from fabric design, the cloud controller spans Nexus Hyperfabric’s entire operational lifecycle. The service
includes capacity and environmental planning, fabric tenant port allocation, bill-of-materials and cabling
planning, web-based step-by-step deployment assistance, device claiming and assignment, day-2
monitoring, software management, and fabric redesign, all in a single interface with a consistent workflow.
An API-first approach allows you to integrate your operation tools or use built-in integrations with leading
industry provisioning and monitoring products.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 5 of 12

Intuitive for IT generalists and application and DevOps teams to operate
Designed for simplicity, Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric enables operators with a diversity of skills to reliably
deliver working solutions with minimal effort. Customers do not need to manage controller or switch
configurations, understand complex fabric protocols, or manage the switch-network operating system. The
cloud controller guides you through all stages of building and maintaining the fabric – from designing, to
ordering, to deploying, to validating, to monitoring, to scaling, to collaborating. This ensures
standardization, repeatability, and reliability. Scaling the fabric up or down can be done easily.
Ergonomically, it offers an operational model akin to cloud hosting rather than on-premises tooling.
Add fabrics with ease
High-performance fabrics
Fabrics need high-performance bandwidth, reliability, simplicity, and a small footprint. With Cisco Nexus
Hyperfabric, you may deploy switches wherever your organization requires them – all they need is
connectivity to the public internet to tether to the cloud controller. Port speeds in the Cisco 6000 Series,
Cisco N9100 Series Switches and Cisco N9300 Series Switches range from 1 to 800 Gb , allowing you to
deploy scalable, high-performance fabrics. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric switches are fully cloud-managed –
all visibility and control are done through the cloud controller rather than through a command line interface.
Fabrics can scale down to a single switch or pair of switches or scale up to a full spine-leaf topology to
cover edge and primary data-center deployments. Fabrics are based on Ethernet VPN-virtual extensible
LAN (EVPN-VXLAN) underlay networks that are automatically provisioned and monitored without the need
to be integrated with your network’s addressing and upstream routing.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 6 of 12

Vertical stack solution
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric is a purpose-built data-center network fabric-as-a-service solution consisting of
hardware, software, cloud management, day-2 automation, and Cisco support. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
manages the cloud controller, which is the single point of administration for all fabrics regardless of
location. Switches connect to the cloud for full lifecycle management, and fabrics are automatically built
and maintained by the controller. Telemetry, monitoring, and Cisco Technical Assistance Center
(Cisco TAC) support are all part of the solution.
Cloud-managed switch
Nexus Hyperfabric Multi-Site Interconnect
Nexus Hyperfabric simplifies multi-site data center interconnection with a built-in multi-site capability,
included in the Essentials license for accessible, cost-effective deployment. Using VXLAN EVPN multi-site
technology, it delivers seamless connectivity across sites through full-mesh peering between border
gateways.
While currently supporting Layer-2 VNI extension, the roadmap includes future enhancements like Layer-3
VNI extension and support for host ports on border gateway switches, further expanding its capabilities.
Nexus Hyperfabric aligns with the broader Cisco Nexus One vision, unifying Cisco ACI, Cisco NX-OS, and
other Cisco networking technologies. Future releases will enable seamless peering across ACI, NX-OS,
and Hyperfabric environments, delivering integrated, scalable enterprise data center networking.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 7 of 12

Monitor unmanaged Cisco NX-OS switches
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric now includes the capability to monitor unmanaged NX-OS switches. This
enhancement allows the fabric to extend its visibility and control to unmanaged Cisco NX-OS switches,
enabling customers to gain insights and operational telemetry within their network environment. This
capability supports assertion-based monitoring, which continuously verifies the availability and reliability of
the fabric and connected resources, immediately identifying the root cause of any detected issues. This
advancement simplifies network operations by providing comprehensive monitoring through the cloud
controller, even for unmanaged NX-OS switches, enhancing operational efficiency and fabric reliability.
Cisco Cloud Control
Cisco Cloud Control unifies the Cisco estate into a single-pane-of-glass environment for collaborative
troubleshooting, monitoring, and single-sign-on management across the Cisco portfolio. It gives teams
and AI agents shared context for managing infrastructure and resolving issues across products and IT
domains. This creates a practical path to AgenticOps while helping organizations improve operational
resilience, increase productivity, and gain more value from existing technology investments.
AI Assistant supports everyday work, while AI Canvas gives operators and AI agents a shared workspace
for complex cross-domain investigation and resolution. Teams spend less time assembling evidence and
coordinating tools, and more time understanding problems and restoring service.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric integrates seamlessly with Cisco Cloud Control to provide a unified, cloud-
managed network fabric. This synergy delivers intelligent design, automated validation, and integrated
monitoring, simplifying operations while ensuring high-performance connectivity across your data center.
AI solutions with Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric delivers outstanding results for your AI networking needs. You have two clear
options to support your AI initiatives:
● Turnkey full-stack AI infrastructure: For the fastest time to first token, select a high-performance,
cloud-managed, turnkey full-stack AI infrastructure. This option is fully compliant with NVIDIA
Enterprise Reference Architecture (ERA) or can scale to a cloud-reference architecture—ideal for
rapid deployment and simplified management with visibility to the GPU. View data sheet.
● Bring your own AI: Alternatively, choose to bring your own AI. With this approach, you gain the
flexibility to innovate by using a cloud-managed network fabric that supports your preferred
compute, GPU, AI software, and storage—empowering you to tailor your AI infrastructure to your
unique requirements.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 8 of 12

AI solutions with Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
Platform support
Table 2. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric switch platform support
Product family Platforms supported Feature sets supported
Cisco 6000 Series Switches HF6100-60L4D, Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric Essentials and Premier licenses
HF6100-32D,
HF6100-64ED
Cisco N9100 Series Switches N9164E-NS4-O Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric Essentials and Premier licenses
Cisco N9300 Series Switches N9K-9336-SE1, Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric Essentials and Premier licenses
N9K-93180YC-FX3,
N9K-93108TC-FX3
Licensing
A subscription entitlement is needed for every Nexus Hyperfabric switch that is deployed and used.
Subscription entitlements may be initially purchased for three, five, or seven years and may be renewed.
The subscription-feature entitlement tiers are based on fabric use cases. Currently, two packages are
available: one (“Essentials”) for general-purpose fabrics and the second (“Premier”) for AI fabrics. All the
switches in a fabric must use the same entitlement tier; however, an organization may concurrently manage
multiple fabrics that use different entitlement tiers.***
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 9 of 12

Table 3. Entitlement feature tiers
Features Essentials entitlement Premier entitlement
(needed for full-stack AI capabilities)
Cisco support 8x5xNBD Yes Yes
Cloud controller Yes Yes
Designer (no purchase required) Yes Yes
Cloud-driven software upgrades Yes Yes
BOM Generation with Optics Yes Yes
On-site Deployment Assist Yes Yes
Plug-and-play deployment Yes Yes
Spine-leaf topologies Yes Yes
Mesh (spineless) topologies Yes Yes
EVPN/VXLAN underlay (opaque) Yes Yes
Static and BGP routing Yes Yes
MLAG Yes Yes
Supports RDMA over Converged Ethernet v2 Yes Yes
(RoCEv2)
Real-time cloud-accessed telemetry Yes Yes
IPv4 and IPv6 Yes Yes
Assertion-based monitoring Yes Yes
Survivable data and local management Yes Yes
plane
Hardware-based attestation and security Yes Yes
API for headless provisioning and Yes Yes
monitoring
AI use-case support Yes Yes
Multi-Site Interconnect Yes Yes
Aligned to NVIDIA Enterprise Reference No Yes
Architecture
NVIDIA backend routing on backend No Yes
switches
Deploy AI-validated blueprints built into No Yes
workflow
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 10 of 12

Features Essentials entitlement Premier entitlement
(needed for full-stack AI capabilities)
Automatically provisions lossless backend No Yes
AI and storage networks
Internal performance monitoring between No Yes
switches and servers
Options for AI servers Cisco UCS® or Bring-Your-Own Bundled Cisco UCS
Product sustainability
Information about Cisco’s environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives and performance is
provided in Cisco’s CSR and sustainability reporting.
Table 4. Cisco environmental sustainability information
Sustainability topic Reference
General Information on product-material-content laws and regulations Materials
Information on electronic waste laws and regulations, including our WEEE Compliance
products, batteries, and packaging
Information on product takeback and reuse program Cisco Takeback and Reuse
Program
Sustainability inquiries Contact: csr_inquiries@cisco.com
Countries and regions supported Table 6: Regulatory Compliance
Power Power (including pluggable) Table 11: Card Specifications
Material Product packaging weight and materials Contact: environment@cisco.com
Weight Table 11: Card Specifications
Cisco and partner services
Cisco and partner services offer a wide range of services to help accelerate your success in connecting
Cisco 6000 Series Switches and/or Cisco N9000 Series Switches to the Nexus Hyperfabric cloud
controller. Our innovative service offerings are delivered through a unique combination of people,
processes, tools, and partners and are focused on helping you increase operational efficiency and improve
your network control. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric solution provides proactive support with the Cisco
SMARTnet® service to help you resolve mission-critical problems with direct access at any time to Cisco
network experts and award-winning resources. Spanning the entire network lifecycle, our service offerings
help increase investment protection, optimize network operations, support migration operations, and
strengthen your IT expertise.
For more information, please visit www.cisco.com/go/services.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 11 of 12

Cisco Capital
Flexible payment solutions to help you achieve your objectives
Cisco Capital® makes it easier to get the right technology to achieve your objectives, enable business
transformation and help you stay competitive. We can help you reduce the total cost of ownership, conserve
capital, and accelerate growth. In more than 100 countries, our flexible payment solutions can help you
acquire hardware, software, services and complementary third-party equipment in easy, predictable
payments. Learn more.
For more information
Try before you buy
Anyone with a Cisco ID or CCO ID may log into the Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric cloud controller at
hyperfabric.cisco.com to request an organization identifier; they can then begin building network fabric
blueprints for free.
Some products and features described are in development and offered on a when-and-if-available basis.
Cisco reserves the right to change delivery timelines and will have no liability for any delays or failures to
deliver.
Document history
New or revised topic Described in Date
Updates were made throughout the entire data sheet. The entire data sheet. February 2026
Cisco Cloud Control Throughout the data sheet. September 2026
Printed in USA C78-4660451-06 09/26
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Page 12 of 12
