AI Solutions with Cisco Nexus
Hyperfabric
©© 22002266 CCiissccoo aanndd//oorr iittss aaffiffilliiaatteess.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..

Contents
Overview .................................................................................................................................................................. 3
Cloud-managed networking: connect to any AI server and storage platform ........................................................... 4
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full-stack AI infrastructure option ................................................................................... 5
Architecture and cloud management ........................................................................................................................ 8
Deployment experience ........................................................................................................................................... 8
Licensing .................................................................................................................................................................. 9
Product sustainability ..............................................................................................................................................11
Cisco and partner services ......................................................................................................................................11
Cisco Capital .......................................................................................................................................................... 12
For more information .............................................................................................................................................. 12

Overview
Cisco Nexus One
Cisco Nexus® One represents a paradigm shift— an open, unified networking architecture that integrates silicon,
systems, software, a single operating model, security and observability. Designed to adapt to customers’ unique
needs and stages of network transformation, Cisco Nexus One provides flexibility and interoperability across the
stack, while maintaining operational consistency across the network. The philosophy is simple: “Open Choice. No
Compromises.” Whether you are building massive AI clusters or enterprise clouds, Cisco Nexus One provides the
consistency and performance you need.
At the top of the Nexus One framework lies the operating model. This layer is designed to orchestrate across
multiple sites and fabrics, streamlining how you scale and operate networks. The goal is to deliver a consistent
experience, regardless of where your workloads live. The operating model offers an on-premesis approach with
Cisco Nexus Dashboard and a cloud managed approach with Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric™.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric offers a flexible and scalable AI infrastructure solution designed to meet diverse
customer needs. It provides two distinct deployment options that cater to different levels of integration and
management preferences: one that enables connection to any AI server and storage platform through cloud-
managed networking, and another that delivers a comprehensive full-stack infrastructure with pre-integrated
compute, storage, and networking components. These options allow organizations to choose the approach that
best fits their AI workload requirements and operational models.
• Option 1: Connect to any AI server and storage platform with cloud-managed networking
This option provides a cloud-managed Hyperfabric network that enables flexible Ethernet fabric connectivity to
any AI server platform and storage system. It offers pre-configured, cloud-managed Cisco® switches optimized
for AI workloads, delivering high-performance, low-latency, and lossless backend networking. This approach
supports diverse AI servers and storage platforms, allowing customers to bring their own servers, GPUs, storage,
and software stacks while benefiting from simplified lifecycle management including design, order, deployment,
monitoring, and upgrades. The cloud-managed controller provides unified visibility and control over the AI fabric,
facilitating streamlined operations and scalability without requiring a full-stack infrastructure purchase.

• Option 2: Full-stack infrastructure option
The full-stack option delivers a turnkey, vertically integrated AI infrastructure solution that includes Cisco UCS
servers equipped with NVIDIA GPUs, partner storage (such as VAST Data), and Cisco Hyperfabric networking.
This option is NVIDIA Enterprise Reference Architecture (ERA) compliant, providing a validated blueprint for
scalable, high-performance AI infrastructure. It features pre-configured, cloud-managed networking combined
with high-performance compute servers and optional high-throughput storage. The full-stack solution simplifies
AI cluster provisioning and scaling by integrating compute, networking, and storage into a unified, cloud-
managed platform with automated lifecycle management from design through deployment and operations.
Cloud-managed networking: connect to any AI server and storage platform
Obtain the benefits of a cloud-managed Hyperfabric network that offers flexible connectivity to any AI server and
storage platform while delivering simplified operations and optimized high performance specifically designed for AI
workloads.
Key components for the cloud-managed networking option (option 1) of Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric include:
• Cloud-hosted Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric controller that manages the network fabric configuration and
complete lifecycle (design, ordering, deployment, management).
• High-performance Ethernet fabric: The fabric is designed for AI workloads with pods of plug-and-play leaf-
spine fabrics, enabling flexible architectures that can connect to any AI server and storage platform.
• Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric switches: Specific models such as HF6100-64ED (800G spine), HF6100-32D (400G
spine), and HF6100-60L4D (leaf) are used. These switches feature Cisco Silicon One® technology, support high
port densities and are optimized for AI workloads with cloud-managed operation. Additionally, Cisco N9300
Series Switches are available and further enhance this high-performance, cloud-managed AI networking
solution, ensuring simplified operations and optimized performance for AI workloads.
• NVIDIA Spectrum4-based Cisco N9100 Series Switches with 800 GbE capacity: This solution delivers a high-
performance, NCP Reference Architecture (NCP RA)–compliant design tailored for next-generation secure AI
factories, ensuring simplified operations and optimized performance for AI workloads.
• Unified operations: The cloud controller manages the AI fabric lifecycle, including design, deployment,
monitoring, upgrades, and troubleshooting. It provides a unified operational experience with assertion-based
event correlation and proactive alerting.

Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full-stack AI infrastructure option
The deployment model for the Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full-stack AI infrastructure option is turnkey, vertically
integrated, and NVIDIA ERA–compliant, consisting of networking, servers, GPUs, and storage. It is cloud-managed
to simplify the entire lifecycle, from design to operation, for demanding AI enterprise workloads. This option
optimizes for time to first token for dedicated AI clusters from concept to production.
Full stack AI infrastructure
Cisco
On-premises AI infrastructure
Pods of plug-and-play Cisco Nexus
leaf-spine fabrics Hyperfabric
Switches
NVIDIA NVIDIA
Cisco UCS NVIDIA GPUs NVIDIA DPU/NIC
VAST Storage
Blue Field-3
Figure 1. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full-stack AI infrastructure option
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full-stack AI infrastructure option is a turnkey, on-premises, AI-cluster option managed
by a cloud-hosted controller, designed to simplify and accelerate AI deployments for enterprises and neocloud. It
simplifies AI infrastructure deployment with a comprehensive, integrated, cloud-managed option compliant with
NVIDIA Enterprise Reference Architecture (ERA). This cloud-managed vertical stack option consists of purpose-built
hardware, software, a Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric cloud controller, day-2 operations, automation, and Cisco support
that eliminates complexity. IT, application, and/or DevOps teams manage the full lifecycle of designing, ordering,
deploying, validating, monitoring, and scaling fabrics without requiring deep networking or operational expertise.

It integrates Cisco’s high-performance networking hardware, including Cisco Silicon One switches and
Cisco UCS C885A M8 Rack Servers with NVIDIA HGX, with a cloud-managed operational model. This option
offers preconfigured templates for AI clusters, enabling rapid design, ordering, deployment, and scaling of
AI infrastructure with zero-touch provisioning and continuous monitoring. It is a unified stack that includes
networking, compute, GPUs, AI software, and storage components, all managed through a cloud controller to
provide full visibility and control.
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI infrastructure option is built to deliver a simplified, scalable, and secure AI
infrastructure that aligns with NVIDIA’s Enterprise Reference Architecture, facilitating efficient AI workloads and
innovation across industries.
Key components:
• Cloud-hosted Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric controller that manages network fabric configuration and lifecycle
(design, ordering, deployment, management, and scaling of AI compute, GPUs, storage, and network
infrastructure)
• AI cluster templates for small to extra-large deployments
• Cisco Nexus 6000 Series Switches with Silicon One technology, including HF6100 and the Cisco N9300 Series
Switches
• Now featuring the NVIDIA Spectrum4-based Cisco N9100 Series Switches with 800 GbE capacity. This
solution delivers a high-performance, NCP Reference Architecture (NCP RA)–compliant design tailored for
next-generation secure AI factories, helping to ensure simplified operations and optimized performance for AI
workloads
• Cisco UCS C885A M8 Rack servers equipped with NVIDIA HGX H200 GPUs and BlueField-3 DPUs and UCS 880
equipped with HGX B300 (coming soon)
• Optional VAST data-storage platform integrated with Cisco UCS servers
• Cisco optics and cables
• Optional AI software stack including NVIDIA AI Enterprise (NVAIE)
• Onsite installation services by Cisco Customer Experience (CX)
Performance and features:
• NVIDIA ERA–compliant for AI workloads, ensuring validated performance and scalability
• High-throughput fabric with 800 GB/s bandwidth and ultra-low latency
• Support for RDMA, NVMe Over Fabrics (NVMeoF), and advanced telemetry
• Cloud-managed lifecycle with zero-touch provisioning and continuous software and firmware updates
• End-to-end assertion-based monitoring from network fabric to compute NICs and storage
• Preconfigured leaf-and-spine pods for plug-and-play deployment

Scalability:
• Modular design supporting small, medium, and large AI clusters
• Pre-configured designs for the entire infrastructure component suite – frontend, backend, rails, storage, and
management
• Independent scaling of network, compute, GPUs, and storage resources
• Fully integrated turnkey option with VAST storage or support for Bring Your Own (BYO) storage
Use cases and benefits:
• Large-scale enterprise AI model training, fine tuning, and inference
• Dedicated AI/ML clusters with optimized efficiency and low latency
• Faster time to value with replicable deployment models
• Validated turnkey AI stack through Cisco, NVIDIA, and storage vendor partnership, ensuring optimized hardware
and software integration
Cloud controller
• Design, plan, and order your AI compute,
storage, and network infrastructure Cisco
• Control, upgrade, and monitor your AI Nexus Hyperfabric
fabric all the way to the NIC
• Continuously monitor loss and latency
Cloud-managed
Fit-for-purpose fabrics
Cisco switches
• Preconfigured for AI workloads
• Low-latency, lossless • Boot-strapped from cloud
backend network • Full visibility and control from
• High-performance frontend the cloud
and storage • 800 GbE backend fabric
Managed storage
Compute and storage
based on Cisco UCS • Storage server and software
management tools of your choice
• High-performance servers with • Limited cloud monitoring
NVIDIA GPUs and BlueField-3-NICs of server hardware
• Optional storage from VAST
• Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric
container providing server network
telemetry
• Server management using
Cisco Intersight® Unified administration of frontend, backend, storage, and management network fabrics
Figure 2. How Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric is built

Architecture and cloud management
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric cloud-managed full-stack AI infrastructure simplifies the entire lifecycle management
process, including design, ordering, deployment, management, and scaling of AI compute, GPUs, storage, and
network infrastructure. This option features the Nexus Hyperfabric cloud controller that enables comprehensive
design, planning, ordering, operation, upgrade, and monitoring of the AI fabric down to the NIC level, with
continuous monitoring of loss and latency. Switches, GPU clusters, and storage servers are bootstrapped and fully
visible and controlled from the cloud, ensuring seamless management.
The infrastructure includes fit-for-purpose fabrics that are preconfigured specifically for AI workloads, providing
a low-latency, lossless backend network alongside high-performance frontend and storage fabrics. Software
and monitoring capabilities are integrated through a Nexus Hyperfabric container that delivers server network
telemetry, unified administration of frontend, backend, storage, and management fabrics, as well as assertion-
based fabric monitoring and real-time health checks.
Scalability and flexibility are key features of this architecture, supporting independent scaling of network, compute,
and storage resources. Its modular design allows customers to bring their own storage or opt for fully integrated
turnkey options, enabling tailored deployments that meet diverse AI workload requirements. This comprehensive
approach facilitates fast, reliable AI cluster deployment with a replicable model that eases AI cluster management
and future scalability.
Deployment experience
The guided installation process for Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI infrastructure option simplifies AI
cluster deployments through real-time verification, cloud-managed lifecycle, continuous software updates,
and a replicable deployment model. On day 0, users access the centralized cloud-managed controller portal at
hyperfabric.cisco.com to plan and design the infrastructure using the designer tool, finalize the bill of materials
including optics and cables, and begin installation planning based on the cabling plan. On day 1, upon equipment
arrival, Cisco 6000 Series Switches or the Cisco N9100 Series Switches, Cisco UCS servers with GPUs, and
optional Cisco UCS servers with third-party storage software are registered and connected to the Nexus
Hyperfabric cloud controller. The mobile-friendly portal provides step-by-step deployment guidance and real-
time topology validation to ensure that the physical fabric matches the design. From day 2 onward, lifecycle
management is handled remotely through the cloud controller, enabling monitoring, upgrades, and collaboration.
This process automates provisioning, guides on-site tasks, and allows remote management to be accessible even
to non-expert staff, thereby streamlining deployment and operational management of AI infrastructure.

Licensing
A subscription entitlement is needed for every Cisco switch that is deployed and used. Subscription entitlements
may be initially purchased for three, five, or seven years and may be renewed. The subscription-feature entitlement
tiers are based on fabric use cases. The “Premier” package applies to Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI
infrastructure option. All the switches in a fabric must use the same entitlement tier; however, an organization may
concurrently manage multiple fabrics that use different entitlement tiers. For the non-full-stack AI option view the
Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric data sheet.
Table 1. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric Essentials and Premier feature tiers
Premier (Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s
Feature
full stack AI infrastructure option only)
Cisco support 8x5xNBD Yes
Cloud controller Yes
Designer (no purchase required) Yes
Cloud-driven software upgrades Yes
BOM generation Yes
On-site deployment assistance Yes
Plug-and-play deployment Yes
Spine-and-leaf topologies Yes
Mesh (spineless) topologies Yes
EVPN/VXLAN underlay (opaque) Yes
Static and BGP routing Yes
MLAG Yes

Premier (Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s
Feature
full stack AI infrastructure option only)
Supports RDMA over Converged Ethernet v2 Yes
Real-time cloud-accessed telemetry Yes
IPv4 and IPv6 Yes
Assertion-based monitoring Yes
Survivable data and local management plane Yes
Hardware-based attestation and security Yes
API for headless provisioning and monitoring Yes
AI use-case support Yes
Aligned to NVIDIA Enterprise Reference
Yes
Architecture
NVIDIA Adaptive Routing on backend switches Yes
Deploy AI-validated blueprints built into
Yes
workflow
Automatically provisions lossless backend AI
Yes
and storage networks
Internal performance monitoring between
Yes
switches and servers
Options for AI servers Bundled Cisco UCS

Product sustainability
Information about Cisco’s Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) initiatives and performance is provided in
Cisco’s CSR and sustainability reporting.
Table 2. Cisco environmental sustainability information
Sustainability topic Reference
General: Information on product-material-content laws and
Materials
regulations
Information on electronic waste laws and regulations,
WEEE Compliance
including products, batteries, and packaging
Information on product takeback and reuse program Cisco Takeback and Reuse Program
Sustainability inquiries Contact: csr_inquiries@cisco.com
Material: Product packaging weight and materials Contact: environment@cisco.com
Cisco and partner services
Cisco and partner services offer a wide range of services to help accelerate your success in connecting
Cisco 6000 Series Switches and Cisco N9000 Series Switches to the Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI
infrastructure option cloud controller. Our innovative service offerings are delivered through a unique combination
of people, processes, tools, and partners and are focused on helping you increase operational efficiency and
improve your network control. Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI infrastructure option provides proactive
support with the Cisco SMARTnet® service to help you resolve mission-critical problems with direct access at any
time to Cisco network experts and award-winning resources. Spanning the entire network lifecycle, our service
offerings help increase investment protection, optimize network operations, support migration operations, and
strengthen your IT expertise.
For more information, please visit www.cisco.com/go/services.

Cisco Capital
Flexible payment solutions to help you achieve your objectives
Cisco Capital® makes it easier to get the right technology to achieve your objectives, enable business
transformation and help you stay competitive. We can help you reduce the total cost of ownership, conserve
capital, and accelerate growth. In more than 100 countries, our flexible payment solutions can help you acquire
hardware, software, services, and complementary thirtd-party equipment in easy, predictable payments.
Learn more.
For more information
Try before you buy
Anyone with a Cisco ID or CCO ID may log into the Cisco Nexus Hyperfabric’s full stack AI infrastructure option
cloud controller at hyperfabric.cisco.com to request an organization identifier; they can then begin building
network fabric blueprints for free.
For more information, visit: cisco.com/go/nexus-hyperfabric-ai.
Some products and features described are in development and offered on a when-and-if-available basis.
Cisco reserves the right to change delivery timelines and will have no liability for any delays or failures to deliver.
© 2026 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list
of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a
partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R) C78-5394501-03 09/26
