Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric
Architecture Guide
Published
2026-02-24

ii
Juniper Networks, Inc.
1133 Innovation Way
Sunnyvale, California 94089
USA
408-745-2000
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc.
in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service
marks are the property of their respective owners.
Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right
to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.
Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture Guide
Copyright © 2026 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved.
The information in this document is current as of the date on the title page.
YEAR 2000 NOTICE
Juniper Networks hardware and software products are Year 2000 compliant. Junos OS has no known time-related
limitations through the year 2038. However, the NTP application is known to have some difficulty in the year 2036.
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
The Juniper Networks product that is the subject of this technical documentation consists of (or is intended for use
with) Juniper Networks software. Use of such software is subject to the terms and conditions of the End User License
Agreement ("EULA") posted at https://support.juniper.net/support/eula/. By downloading, installing or using such
software, you agree to the terms and conditions of that EULA.

iii
Table of Contents
About This Guide | xi
1 Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture—Overview
About This Architecture Guide | 2
Terminology | 2
Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture | 6
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9
2 Data Center Fabric Reference Design—Tested Implementation
Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49
IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81
Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices | 84
Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link | 89
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network | 90
Enabling Load Balancing | 93
Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links in Aggregated Ethernet
Interfaces | 94
IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History | 96
Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97
BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with EVPN-VXLAN Implementation | 104
IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP | 114
Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay | 117
Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering | 120
Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity | 122
BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center | 123
Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142

iv
Configuring a Bridged Overlay | 144
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 145
Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 147
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 148
Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 153
Bridged Overlay — Release History | 171
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 172
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance | 173
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device | 176
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device | 180
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device | 186
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device | 190
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances | 205
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on
a Spine Device | 207
Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF
Instances on a Spine Device | 211
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on
a Leaf Device | 218
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a
Leaf Device | 222
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 229
Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 229
Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN Multihoming with
VLAN Trunking | 230
Enabling Storm Control | 234
Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History | 235
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 239
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 241
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 241

v
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 250
Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices | 257
Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device | 264
Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 269
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 270
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 272
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 274
Routed Overlay — Release History | 280
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 281
Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device | 282
Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End System | 283
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History | 284
Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation | 285
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network | 288
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network | 292
How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the Underlay and Overlay
Networks | 294
How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the
PODs | 296
How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 302
Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation | 315
Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture | 318
Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 320
Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With the Route Reflector
Layer | 328
Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches | 334
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster and ToR Devices | 342

vi
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Configuration | 348
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation | 353
Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding Instance | 353
Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist | 355
Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence | 358
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature — Release History | 360
Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes | 361
Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 361
Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces | 364
Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine Devices and
the Backbone Devices | 366
Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device | 370
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices | 375
Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 377
Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating | 381
DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History | 386
Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN | 387
Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 389
Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 390
Data Center Interconnect—Release History | 391
Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 391
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN | 397
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN | 401
Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension | 402
Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN | 407
Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch Instance | 409
Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 413
Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 415
VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance | 419

vii
Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-VRF | 421
Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance | 424
Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching | 428
Verify Host Route Support | 429
EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching | 430
Inter-DC Underlay and Overlay | 432
Intra-DC Underlay and Overlay | 435
Layer 2 Symmetric IRB | 436
Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 440
Type 5 Stitching | 450
Interconnect Multihoming for DCI Gateway Peers | 452
Configurations for DC2-GW21 and DC2-Leaf21 | 453
Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching Through Interconnected EVPN-MPLS
WAN Gateways | 477
Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q | 486
Configuring the Aggregators | 488
Configuring the TOR Devices | 492
Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators | 496
Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices | 499
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels | 501
Service Chaining Design and Implementation | 508
Service Chaining | 508
Service Chaining Design | 508
Configuring Service Chaining | 509
Verifying Service Chaining | 512
Service Chaining with Multicast | 515
Service Chaining with Multicast Design | 515
Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast | 516

viii
Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast | 521
Service Chaining— Release History | 523
Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation | 523
Configuring IGMP Snooping | 524
Verifying IGMP Snooping | 525
Configuring PIM | 527
Verifying PIM | 528
Multicast — Feature Summary | 531
Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation | 533
Configuring the Server Leaf | 535
Configuring the Spine | 535
Configuring the Border Leaf | 537
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf | 540
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine | 542
Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design— Feature Summary | 545
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed
Bridging Overlays | 546
Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP) | 554
Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance | 559
Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers | 564
Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
Multihoming | 566
Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices | 570
Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway
Role, and PIM Options | 571
Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router | 575
Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices | 577
Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation | 581

ix
Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) Implementation | 613
Regular OISM and Enhanced OISM Differences | 614
Enhanced OISM Use Cases Overview | 615
Configure and Verify the EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering | 618
Configure the EVPN MAC-VRF Instance and Enable Enhanced OISM | 624
Configure Platform-specific Parameters | 625
Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming Peer) with IGMPv3—
SSM | 626
Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and
IGMPv3—SSM | 629
Verify Use Case#1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3
—SSM | 642
Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 675
Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 678
Verify Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM | 686
Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 693
Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 696
Verify Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 706
Configure VMTO | 723
DHCP Relay Design and Implementation | 724
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Same Leaf
Device | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Different Leaf
Devices | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs | 727
DHCP Relay — Release History | 729
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 730
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 731

x
Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 733
Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 734
Configuring Storm Control | 734
Verifying Storm Control | 735
Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering | 735
Verifying MAC Filtering | 738
Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring | 738
Verifying Port Mirroring | 739
Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History | 739

xi
About This Guide
Dive in to the Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture Guide, which gives network designers and
operators the information they need to build a state-of-the-art, multiservice, cloud data center network.

1
CHAPTER
Data Center Fabric Blueprint
Architecture—Overview
IN THIS CHAPTER
About This Architecture Guide | 2
Terminology | 2
Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture | 6
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

2
About This Architecture Guide
The purpose of this guide is to provide networking professionals with the concepts and tools needed to
build multiservice data center fabric networks.
The intended audience for this guide includes system integrators, infrastructure professionals, partners,
and customers that are currently using or considering upgrading to a high-end IP fabric data center
fabric architecture.
Terminology
IN THIS SECTION
Glossary Terms | 2
This section provides a summary of commonly used terms, protocols, and building block technologies
used in creating and maintaining data center networks.
Glossary Terms
• ARP—Address Resolution Protocol. A protocol defined in RFC 826 for mapping a logical IP address to
a physical MAC address.
• Backbone Device—A device in the WAN cloud that is directly connected to a spine device or devices
in a data center. Backbone devices are required in this reference topology to provide physical
connectivity between data centers that are interconnected using a data center interconnect (DCI).
• Border Leaf—A device that typically has the sole purpose of providing a connection to one or more
external devices. The external devices, for example, multicast gateways or data center gateways,
provide additional functionality to the IP fabric.
• Border Spine—A device that typically has two roles—a network underlay device and a border device
that provides a connection to one or more external devices. The external devices, for example,
multicast gateways or data center gateways, provide additional functionality to the IP fabric.

3
• Bridged Overlay—An Ethernet-based overlay service designed for data center environments that do
not require routing within an EVPN/VXLAN fabric. IP routing can provided externally to the fabric as
needed.
• BUM—Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, and Multicast. The BUM acronym collectively identifies the
three traffic types.
• Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay—A form of IRB overlay that provides routing at a central gateway
and bridging at the edge of the overlay network. In an IRB overlay, a routed overlay and one or more
bridged overlays connect at one or more locations through the use of IRB interfaces.
• Clos Network—A multistage network topology first developed by Charles Clos for telephone
networks that provides multiple paths to a destination at each stage of the topology. Non-blocking
networks are possible in a Clos-based topology.
• Collapsed Spine fabric—An EVPN fabric design in which the overlay functions are collapsed onto the
spine layer rather than distributed between spine and leaf devices. This type of fabric has no leaf
layer in the EVPN core; the spine devices connect directly to the access layer.
• Contrail Command—Contrail Enterprise Multicloud user interface. Provides a consolidated, easy-to-
use software designed to automate the creation and management of data center networks.
• Contrail Enterprise Multicloud—A suite of products and software that combines Contrail Command
as a single point of management for private and public clouds, QFX Series switches running Junos OS
as an infrastructure for data center networking, and Contrail Insights (formerly known as AppFormix)
for telemetry and network visualization.
• DCI—Data Center Interconnect. The technology used to interconnect separate data centers.
• Default instance—A global instance in a Juniper Networks device that hosts the primary routing table
such as inet.0 (default routing instance) and the primary MAC address table (default switching
instance).
• DHCP relay—A function that allows a DHCP server and client to exchange DHCP messages over the
network when they are not in the same Ethernet broadcast domain. DHCP relay is typically
implemented at a default gateway.
• EBGP—External BGP. A routing protocol used to exchange routing information between autonomous
networks. It has also been used more recently in place of a traditional Interior Gateway Protocols,
such as IS-IS and OSPF, for routing within an IP fabric.
• Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay—A form of IRB overlay that provides routing and bridging at the edge
of the overlay network.
• End System—An endpoint device that connects into the data center. An end system can be a wide
range of equipment but is often a server, a router, or another networking device in the data center.

4
• ESI—Ethernet segment identifier. An ESI is a 10-octet integer that identifies a unique Ethernet
segment in EVPN. In this blueprint architecture, LAGs with member links on different access devices
are assigned a unique ESI to enable Ethernet multihoming.
• Ethernet-connected Multihoming—An Ethernet-connected end system that connects to the network
using Ethernet access interfaces on two or more devices.
• EVPN—Ethernet Virtual Private Network. A VPN technology that supports bridged, routed, and
hybrid network overlay services. EVPN is defined in RFC 7432 with extensions defined in a number
of IETF draft standards.
• EVPN Type 2 Route—Advertises MAC addresses and the associated IP addresses from end systems
to devices participating in EVPN.
• GBP—Group based policy. GBP uses firewall filter rules to provide micro and macro segmentation
(security policies) for EVPN-VXLAN by using the reserved fields in the VXLAN header for match
conditions.
• IBGP—Internal BGP. In this blueprint architecture, IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP) is used
for EVPN signalling between the devices in the overlay.
• IP Fabric—An all-IP fabric network infrastructure that provides multiple symmetric paths between all
devices in the fabric. We support an IP Fabric with IPv4 (an IPv4 Fabric) with all architectures
described in this guide, and an IP Fabric with IPv6 (an IPv6 Fabric) with some architectures and on
some platforms.
• IP-connected Multihoming—An IP-connected end system that connects to the network using IP
access interfaces on two or more devices.
• IRB—Integrated Routing and Bridging. A technique that enables routing between VLANs and allows
traffic to be routed or bridged based on whether the destination is outside or inside of a bridging
domain. To activate IRB, you associate a logical interface (IRB interface) with a VLAN and configure
the IRB interface with an IP address for the VLAN subnet.
• Leaf Device—An access level network device in an IP fabric topology. End systems connect to the
leaf devices in this blueprint architecture.
• MAC-VRF instance—A routing instance type that enables you to configure multiple customer-
specific EVPN instances instead of only one instance (the default instance). MAC-VRF instances use a
consistent configuration style across platforms. Different MAC-VRF instances can support different
Ethernet service types (VLAN-aware and VLAN-based services) on the same device in a data center.
• Multiservice Cloud Data Center Network—A data center network that optimizes the use of available
compute, storage, and network access interfaces by allowing them to be shared flexibly across
diverse applications, tenants, and use cases.

5
• NDP—Neighbor Discovery Protocol. An IPv6 protocol defined in RFC 4861 that combines the
functionality of ARP and ICMP, and adds other enhanced capabilities.
• NVE—As defined in RFC 8365, A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN
(EVPN), a network virtualization edge is a device that terminates a VXLAN tunnel in a network
virtualization overlay. For example, in a centrally routed bridging overlay, we consider spine and leaf
devices to be NVE devices.
• NVO—A network virtualization overlay is a fabric in which we use EVPN as a control plane and
VXLAN as a data plane.
• Routed Overlay—An IP-based overlay service where no Ethernet bridging is required. Also referred
to as an IP VPN. In this blueprint architecture, the routed overlay is based on EVPN Type 5 routes
and their associated procedures, and supported by VXLAN tunneling.
• Spine Device—A centrally-located device in an IP fabric topology that has a connection to each leaf
device.
• Storm Control—Feature that prevents BUM traffic storms by monitoring BUM traffic levels and
taking a specified action to limit BUM traffic forwarding when a specified traffic level is exceeded.
• Symmetric IRB Routing—An intersubnet forwarding model in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics where the
VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEPs) symmetrically route the traffic for a tenant virtual routing and
forwarding (VRF) instance using the same VXLAN network identifier (VNI) on both sides of the
VXLAN tunnel. We support EVPN Type 5 routing using the symmetric IRB model by default. Type 2
routing is asymmetric by default; you can configure a device to use the symmetric IRB model for
EVPN Type 2 routing in a particular VRF.
• Underlay Network—A network that provides basic network connectivity between devices.In this
blueprint architecture, the underlay network is an IP Fabric that provides the basic IP connectivity,
usually with IPv4. We also support an IP Fabric with an IPv6 underlay with some architecture designs
on certain platforms.
• VLAN trunking—The ability for one interface to support multiple VLANs.
• VNI—VXLAN Network Identifier. Uniquely identifies a VXLAN virtual network. A VNI encoded in a
VXLAN header can support 16 million virtual networks.
• VTEP—VXLAN Tunnel Endpoint. A loopback or virtual interface where traffic enters and exits a
VXLAN tunnel. Tenant traffic is encapsulated into VXLAN packets at a source VTEP, and de-
encapsulated when the traffic leaves the VXLAN tunnel at a remote VTEP.
• VXLAN—Virtual Extensible LAN. Network virtualization tunneling protocol defined in RFC 7348 used
to build virtual networks over an IP-routed infrastructure. VXLAN is used to tunnel tenant traffic over
the IP fabric underlay from a source endpoint at an ingress device to a destination endpoint at the

6
egress device. These tunnels are established dynamically by EVPN. Each VTEP device advertises its
loopback address in the underlay network for VXLAN tunnel reachability between VTEP devices.
• VXLAN Stitching—A Data Center Interconnect (DCI) feature that supports Layer 2 interconnection
EVPN-VXLAN fabric on a per-VXLAN VNI basis.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Contrail Enterprise Multicloud Components
Introducing the Data Center Fabric Blueprint
Architecture
IN THIS SECTION
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Introduction | 6
Building Blocks | 7
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Introduction
This section provides an introduction to the Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture.
It includes the following sections.
The Next Act for Data Center Networks
For truly cloud-native workloads that have no dependency on Ethernet broadcast, multicast,
segmentation, multitenancy, or workload mobility, the best solution is typically a simple IP fabric
network. When a unique workload instance requires mobility, the current host system can advertise the
unique IP address of the workload. This can be performed with EBGP route exchange between the host
system and the ToR. However, support for BUM and multitenancy require more advanced network
functions. This is where overlays are added.

7
Over its evolution the data center network was a function of the demands and expectations placed on
it. As the nature of workloads changed, the network had to adapt. Each solution simplified a set of
problems by trading one form of complexity and cost for another. The cloud network is no different. In
the end, bits must be moved from point A to point B reliably, securely, and at the desired throughput.
Where operators need a single network to serve more than one purpose (the multiservice cloud
network), they can add network-layer segmentation and other functions to share the infrastructure
across diverse groups of endpoints and tenants. Operational simplicity is achieved with a centralized
controller that implements an intent model that is consistent with the cloud scale functions of the
network layer. Technical simplicity is achieved using a reduced set of building blocks that are based on
open standards and homogeneous across the end-to-end network.
This guide introduces a building block approach to creating multiservice cloud networks on the
foundation of a modern IP fabric. The Juniper Networks solutions team will systematically review the
set of building blocks required for an agile network, focus on specific, state-of-the-art, open standards-
based technology that enables each function, and add new functionality to the guide as it becomes
available in future software releases.
All the building blocks are fully synergistic and you can combine any of the building blocks with any
other to satisfy a diverse set of use cases simultaneously — this is the hallmark of the cloud. You should
consider how you can leverage the building blocks in this guide to achieve the use cases that are
relevant to your network.
Building Blocks
The guide organizes the technologies used to build multiservice cloud network architectures into
modular building blocks. Each building block includes features that either must be implemented together
to build the network, are often implemented together because they provide complementary
functionality, or are presented together to provide choices for particular technologies.
This blueprint architecture includes required building blocks and optional building blocks. The optional
building blocks can be added or removed to support the needs of a specific multiservice data center
fabric network.
This guide walks you through the design and technology choices associated with each building block,
and provides information designed to help you choose the building blocks that best meet the needs for
your multiservice data center fabric network. The guide also provides the implementation procedures
for each building block.
The currently-supported building blocks include:
• IP Fabric Underlay Network
• Network Virtualization Overlays

8
• Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay
• Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
• Routed Overlay
• Multihoming
• Multihoming of Ethernet-connected End Systems
• Multihoming of IP-connected End Systems
• Data Center Interconnect (DCI)
• Service Chaining
• Multicast
• Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization
• DHCP Relay
• Proxy ARP
• Layer 2 Port Security
Additional building blocks will be added to this guide as support for the technology becomes available
and is validated by the Juniper Networks testing team.
Each building block is discussed in more detail in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture
Components" on page 9.
For information about the hardware and software that serve as a foundation to your building blocks, see
"Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9

9
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture
Components
IN THIS SECTION
IP Fabric Underlay Network | 9
IPv4 and IPv6 Workload Support | 12
Network Virtualization Overlays | 13
Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 28
Multihoming Support for IP-Connected End Systems | 29
Border Devices | 29
Data Center Interconnect (DCI) | 32
Service Chaining | 34
Multicast Optimizations | 35
Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN | 42
DHCP Relay | 44
Reducing ARP Traffic with ARP Synchronization and Suppression (Proxy ARP) | 45
Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems | 45
This section gives an overview of the building blocks used in this blueprint architecture. The
implementation of each building block technology is explored in more detail later sections.
For information about the hardware and software that serve as a foundation to your building blocks, see
the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page
51.
The building blocks include:
IP Fabric Underlay Network
The modern IP fabric underlay network building block provides IP connectivity across a Clos-based
topology. Juniper Networks supports the following IP fabric underlay models:

10
• A 3-stage IP fabric, which is made up of a tier of spine devices and a tier of leaf devices. See Figure 1
on page 10.
• A 5-stage IP fabric, which typically starts as a single 3-stage IP fabric that grows into two 3-stage IP
fabrics. These fabrics are segmented into separate points of delivery (PODs) within a data center. For
this use case, we support the addition of a tier of super spine devices that enable communication
between the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs. See Figure 2 on page 11.
• A collapsed spine IP fabric model, in which leaf layer functions are collapsed onto the spine devices.
This type of fabric can be set up and operate similarly to either a 3-stage or 5-stage IP fabric except
without a separate tier of leaf devices. You might use a collapsed spine fabric if you are moving
incrementally to an EVPN spine-and-leaf model, or you have access devices or top-of-rack (TOR)
devices that can’t be used in a leaf layer because they don’t support EVPN-VXLAN.
Figure 1: Three-Stage IP Fabric Underlay

11
Figure 2: Five-Stage IP Fabric Underlay
In these figures, the devices are interconnected using high-speed interfaces that are either single links or
aggregated Ethernet interfaces. The aggregated Ethernet interfaces are optional—a single link between
devices is typically used— but can be deployed to increase bandwidth and provide link level redundancy.
We cover both options.
We chose EBGP as the routing protocol in the underlay network for its dependability and scalability.
Each device is assigned its own autonomous system with a unique autonomous system number to
support EBGP. You can use other routing protocols in the underlay network; the usage of those
protocols is beyond the scope of this document.

12
The reference architecture designs described in this guide are based on an IP Fabric that uses EBGP for
the underlay connectivity and IBGP for overlay peering (see "IBGP for Overlays" on page 14). You can
alternatively configure the overlay peering using EBGP.
Starting in Junos OS Releases 21.2R2 and 21.4R1, we also support configuring an IPv6 Fabric. The IPv6
Fabric design in this guide uses EBGP for both underlay connectivity and overlay peering (see "EBGP for
Overlays with IPv6 Underlays" on page 15).
NOTE: The IP Fabric can use IPv4 or IPv6 as follows:
• An IPv4 Fabric uses IPv4 interface addressing, and IPv4 underlay and overlay BGP
sessions for end-to-end workload communication.
• An IPv6 Fabric uses IPv6 interface addressing, and IPv6 underlay and overlay BGP
sessions for end-to-end workload communication.
• We don’t support an IP Fabric that mixes IPv4 and IPv6.
However, both IPv4 Fabrics and IPv6 Fabrics support dual-stack workloads—the
workloads can be either IPv4 or IPv6, or both IPv4 and IPv6.
Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)—the ability to run BFD on individual links in an
aggregated Ethernet interface—can also be enabled in this building block to quickly detect link failures
on any member links in aggregated Ethernet bundles that connect devices.
For more information, see these other sections in this guide:
• Configuring spine and leaf devices in 3-stage and 5-stage IP fabric underlays: "IP Fabric Underlay
Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
• Implementing the additional tier of super spine devices in a 5-stage IP fabric underlay: "Five-Stage IP
Fabric Design and Implementation" on page 285.
• Configuring an IPv6 underlay and supporting EBGP IPv6 overlay: "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay
Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.
• Setting up the underlay in a collapsed spine fabric model: "Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and
Implementation" on page 315.
IPv4 and IPv6 Workload Support
Because many networks implement a dual stack environment for workloads that includes IPv4 and IPv6
protocols, this blueprint provides support for both protocols. Steps to configure the fabric to support

13
IPv4 and IPv6 workloads are interwoven throughout this guide to allow you to pick one or both of these
protocols.
NOTE: The IP protocol you use for workload traffic is independent of the IP protocol
version (IPv4 or IPv6) that you configure for the IP Fabric underlay and overlay. (See "IP
Fabric Underlay Network" on page 9.) An IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure can
support both IPv4 and IPv6 workloads.
Network Virtualization Overlays
A network virtualization overlay is a virtual network that is transported over an IP underlay network.
This building block enables multitenancy in a network, allowing you to share a single physical network
across multiple tenants, while keeping each tenant’s network traffic isolated from the other tenants.
A tenant is a user community (such as a business unit, department, workgroup, or application) that
contains groups of endpoints. Groups may communicate with other groups in the same tenancy, and
tenants may communicate with other tenants if permitted by network policies. A group is typically
expressed as a subnet (VLAN) that can communicate with other devices in the same subnet, and reach
external groups and endpoints by way of a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instance.
As seen in the overlay example shown in Figure 3 on page 14, Ethernet bridging tables (represented by
triangles) handle tenant bridged frames and IP routing tables (represented by squares) process routed
packets. Inter-VLAN routing happens at the integrated routing and bridging (IRB) interfaces (represented
by circles). Ethernet and IP tables are directed into virtual networks (represented by colored lines). To
reach end systems attached to other VXLAN Tunnel Endpoint (VTEP) devices, tenant packets are
encapsulated and sent over an EVPN-signalled VXLAN tunnel (represented by green tunnel icons) to the
associated remote VTEP devices. Tunneled packets are de-encapsulated at the remote VTEP devices
and forwarded to the remote end systems by way of the respective bridging or routing tables of the
egress VTEP device.

14
Figure 3: VXLAN Tunnels—Ethernet Bridging, IP Routing, and IRB
The next sections provide more details about overlay networks.
IBGP for Overlays
Internal BGP (IBGP) is a routing protocol that exchanges reachability information across an IP network.
When IBGP is combined with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP), it provides the foundation for EVPN to
exchange reachability information between VTEP devices. This capability is required to establish inter-
VTEP VXLAN tunnels and use them for overlay connectivity services.
Figure 4 on page 15 shows that the spine and leaf devices use their loopback addresses for peering in a
single autonomous system. In this design, the spine devices act as a route reflector cluster and the leaf
devices are route reflector clients. A route reflector satisfies the IBGP requirement for a full mesh
without the need to peer all the VTEP devices directly with one another. As a result, the leaf devices
peer only with the spine devices and the spine devices peer with both spine devices and leaf devices.
Because the spine devices are connected to all the leaf devices, the spine devices can relay IBGP
information between the indirectly peered leaf device neighbors.

15
Figure 4: IBGP for Overlays
You can place route reflectors almost anywhere in the network. However, you must consider the
following:
• Does the selected device have enough memory and processing power to handle the additional
workload required by a route reflector?
• Is the selected device equidistant and reachable from all EVPN speakers?
• Does the selected device have the proper software capabilities?
In this design, the route reflector cluster is placed at the spine layer. The QFX switches that you can use
as a spine in this reference design have ample processing speed to handle route reflector client traffic in
the network virtualization overlay.
For details about implementing IBGP in an overlay, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
EBGP for Overlays with IPv6 Underlays
The original reference architecture use cases in this guide illustrate an IPv4 EBGP underlay design with
IPv4 IBGP overlay device connectivity. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network" on page 9 and "IBGP for
Overlays" on page 14. However, as network virtualization edge (NVE) devices start adopting IPv6 VTEPs

16
to take advantage of the extended addressing range and capabilities of IPv6, we have expanded IP
Fabric support to encompass IPv6.
Starting in Junos OS Release 21.2R2-S1, on supporting platforms you can alternatively use an IPv6
Fabric infrastructure with some reference architecture overlay designs. The IPv6 Fabric design comprises
IPv6 interface addressing, an IPv6 EBGP underlay and an IPv6 EBGP overlay for workload connectivity.
With an IPv6 Fabric, the NVE devices encapsulate the VXLAN header with an IPv6 outer header and
tunnel the packets across the fabric end to end using IPv6 next hops. The workload can be IPv4 or IPv6.
Most of the elements you configure in the supported reference architecture overlay designs are
independent of whether the underlay and overlay infrastructure uses IPv4 or IPv6. The corresponding
configuration procedures for each of the supported overlay designs call out any configuration
differences if the underlay and overlay uses the IPv6 Fabric design.
For more details, see the following references in this guide and other resources:
• Configuring an IPv6 Fabric using EBGP for underlay connectivity and overlay peering: "IPv6 Fabric
Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.
• Starting releases in which different platforms support an IPv6 Fabric design when serving in
particular roles in the fabric: "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported
Hardware Summary" on page 51.
• Overview of IPv6 underlay and overlay peering support in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics on Juniper
Networks devices: EVPN-VXLAN with an IPv6 Underlay.
Bridged Overlay
The first overlay service type described in this guide is a bridged overlay, as shown in Figure 5 on page
17.

17
Figure 5: Bridged Overlay
In this overlay model, Ethernet VLANs are extended between leaf devices across VXLAN tunnels. These
leaf-to-leaf VXLAN tunnels support data center networks that require Ethernet connectivity between
leaf devices but do not need routing between the VLANs. As a result, the spine devices provide only
basic underlay and overlay connectivity for the leaf devices, and do not perform routing or gateway
services seen with other overlay methods.
Leaf devices originate VTEPs to connect to the other leaf devices. The tunnels enable the leaf devices to
send VLAN traffic to other leaf devices and Ethernet-connected end systems in the data center. The
simplicity of this overlay service makes it attractive for operators who need an easy way to introduce
EVPN/VXLAN into their existing Ethernet-based data center.
NOTE: You can add routing to a bridged overlay by implementing an MX Series router or
SRX Series security device external to the EVPN/VXLAN fabric. Otherwise, you can
select one of the other overlay types that incorporate routing (such as an "edge-routed
bridging overlay" on page 236, a "centrally-routed bridging overlay" on page 172, or a
"routed overlay" on page 267).
For information on implementing a bridged overlay, see "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation"
on page 142.
Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay
The second overlay service type is the centrally routed bridging (CRB) overlay, as shown in Figure 6 on
page 18.

18
Figure 6: Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay
In a CRB overlay, routing occurs at a central gateway of the data center network (the spine layer in this
example) rather than at the VTEP device where the end systems are connected (the leaf layer in this
example).
You can use this overlay model when you need routed traffic to go through a centralized gateway or
when your edge VTEP devices lack the required routing capabilities.
As shown above, traffic that originates at the Ethernet-connected end systems is forwarded to the leaf
VTEP devices over a trunk (multiple VLANs) or an access port (single VLAN). The VTEP device forwards
the traffic to local end systems or to an end system at a remote VTEP device. An integrated routing and
bridging (IRB) interface at each spine device helps route traffic between the Ethernet virtual networks.
The VLAN-aware bridging overlay service model enables you to easily aggregate a collection of VLANs
into the same overlay virtual network. The Juniper Networks EVPN design supports three VLAN-aware
Ethernet service model configurations in the data center, as follows:
• Default instance VLAN-aware—With this option, you implement a single, default switching instance
that supports a total of 4094 VLANs. All leaf platforms included in this design ("Data Center EVPN-
VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51) support the default
instance style of VLAN-aware overlay.
To configure this service model, see Configuring a VLAN-Aware Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay in
the Default Instance.
• Virtual switch VLAN-aware—With this option, multiple virtual switch instances support up to 4094
VLANs per instance. This Ethernet service model is ideal for overlay networks that require scalability

19
beyond a single default instance. Support for this option is available currently on the QFX10000 line
of switches.
To implement this scalable service model, see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual
Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205.
• MAC-VRF instance VLAN-aware—With this option, multiple MAC-VRF instances support up to
4094 VLANs per instance. This Ethernet service model is ideal for overlay networks that require
scalability beyond a single default instance, and where you want more options to ensure VLAN
isolation or interconnection among different tenants in the same fabric. Support for this option is
available on the platforms that support MAC-VRF instances (see Feature Explorer: MAC VRF with
EVPN-VXLAN).
To implement this scalable service model, see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual
Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205.
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
The third overlay service option is the edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay, as shown in Figure 7 on page
20.

20
Figure 7: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
In this Ethernet service model, the IRB interfaces are moved to leaf device VTEPs at the edge of the
overlay network to bring IP routing closer to the end systems. Because of the special ASIC capabilities
required to support bridging, routing, and EVPN/VXLAN in one device, ERB overlays are only possible
on certain switches. For a list of switches that we support as leaf devices in an ERB overlay, see "Data
Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.
This model allows for a simpler overall network. The spine devices are configured to handle only IP
traffic, which removes the need to extend the bridging overlays to the spine devices.
This option also enables faster server-to-server, intra-data center traffic (also known as east-west traffic)
where the end systems are connected to the same leaf device VTEP. As a result, routing happens much
closer to the end systems than with CRB overlays.
NOTE: When you configure IRB interfaces that are included in EVPN Type-5 routing
instances on QFX5110 or QFX5120 switches that function as leaf devices, the device
automatically enables symmetric inter-IRB unicast routing for EVPN Type 5 routes.
For information on implementing the ERB overlay, see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation" on page 236.

21
Collapsed Spine Overlay
The overlay network in a collapsed spine architecture is similar to an ERB overlay. In a collapsed spine
architecture, the leaf device functions are collapsed onto the spine devices. Because there is no leaf
layer, you configure the VTEPS and IRB interfaces on the spine devices, which are at the edge of the
overlay network like the leaf devices in an ERB model. The spine devices can also perform border
gateway functions to route north-south traffic, or extend Layer 2 traffic across data center locations.
For a list of switches that we support with a collapsed spine architecture, see "Data Center EVPN-
VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.
Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays
To help you decide which overlay type is best suited for your EVPN environment, see Table 1 on page
21.
NOTE: We support mixing bridged overlay, CRB overlay, and ERB overlay configurations
on the same device at the same time on devices that support these overlay types. You
don't need to configure the device with separate logical systems for the device to
operate in different types of overlays in parallel.
Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays
Comparison Points ERB Overlay CRB Overlay Bridged Overlay
Fully distributed tenant ✓
inter-subnet routing
Minimal impact of IP ✓
gateway failure
Dynamic routing to third- ✓
party nodes at leaf level
Optimized for high ✓
volume of east-west
traffic

22
Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays (Continued)
Comparison Points ERB Overlay CRB Overlay Bridged Overlay
Better integration with ✓
raw IP fabrics
IP VRF virtualization ✓
closer to the server
Contrail vRouter ✓
multihoming required
Easier EVPN ✓
interoperability with
different vendors
Symmetric inter-subnet ✓ ✓
routing
VLAN ID overlapping per ✓ ✓ ✓
rack
Simpler manual ✓ ✓
configuration and
troubleshooting
Service provider- and ✓ ✓
Enterprise-style interfaces
Legacy leaf switch ✓ ✓
support (QFX5100)
Centralized virtual ✓
machine traffic
optimization (VMTO)
control

23
Table 1: Comparison of Bridged, CRB, and ERB Overlays (Continued)
Comparison Points ERB Overlay CRB Overlay Bridged Overlay
IP tenant subnet gateway ✓
on the firewall cluster
IRB Addressing Models in Bridging Overlays
The configuration of IRB interfaces in CRB and ERB overlays requires an understanding of the models
for the default gateway IP and MAC address configuration of IRB interfaces as follows:
• Unique IRB IP Address—In this model, a unique IP address is configured on each IRB interface in an
overlay subnet.
The benefit of having a unique IP address and MAC address on each IRB interface is the ability to
monitor and reach each of the IRB interfaces from within the overlay using its unique IP address. This
model also allows you to configure a routing protocol on the IRB interface.
The downside of this model is that allocating a unique IP address to each IRB interface may consume
many IP addresses of a subnet.
• Unique IRB IP Address with Virtual Gateway IP Address—This model adds a virtual gateway IP
address to the previous model, and we recommend it for centrally routed bridged overlays. It is
similar to VRRP, but without the in-band data plane signaling between the gateway IRB interfaces.
The virtual gateway should be the same for all default gateway IRB interfaces in the overlay subnet
and is active on all gateway IRB interfaces where it is configured. You should also configure a
common IPv4 MAC address for the virtual gateway, which becomes the source MAC address on data
packets forwarded over the IRB interface.
In addition to the benefits of the previous model, the virtual gateway simplifies default gateway
configuration on end systems. The downside of this model is the same as the previous model.
• IRB with Anycast IP Address and MAC Address—In this model, all default gateway IRB interfaces in
an overlay subnet are configured with the same IP and MAC address. We recommend this model for
ERB overlays.
A benefit of this model is that only a single IP address is required per subnet for default gateway IRB
interface addressing, which simplifies default gateway configuration on end systems.
Routed Overlay using EVPN Type 5 Routes
The final overlay option is a routed overlay, as shown in Figure 8 on page 24.

24
Figure 8: Routed Overlay
This option is an IP-routed virtual network service. Unlike an MPLS-based IP VPN, the virtual network in
this model is based on EVPN/VXLAN.
Cloud providers prefer this virtual network option because most modern applications are optimized for
IP. Because all communication between devices happens at the IP layer, there is no need to use any
Ethernet bridging components, such as VLANs and ESIs, in this routed overlay model.
For information on implementing a routed overlay, see "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on
page 267.
MAC-VRF Instances for Multitenancy in Network Virtualization Overlays
MAC-VRF routing instances enable you to configure multiple EVPN instances with different Ethernet
service types on a device acting as a VTEP in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric. Using MAC-VRF instances, you
can manage multiple tenants in the data center with customer-specific VRF tables to isolate or group
tenant workloads.
MAC-VRF instances also introduce support for the VLAN-based service type in addition to the prior
support for the VLAN-aware service type. See Figure 9 on page 25.

25
Figure 9: MAC-VRF Service Types
• VLAN-based service—You can configure one VLAN and the corresponding VXLAN network identifier
(VNI) in the MAC-VRF instance. To provision a new VLAN and VNI, you must configure a new MAC
VRF instance with the new VLAN and VNI.
• VLAN-aware service—You can configure one or more VLANs and the corresponding VNIs in the same
MAC-VRF instance. To provision a new VLAN and VNI, you can add the new VLAN and VNI
configuration to the existing MAC-VRF instance, which saves some configuration steps over using a
VLAN-based service.
MAC-VRF instances enable more flexible configuration options at both Layer 2 and Layer 3. For
example:
Figure 10: Flexible Configuration Options at both Layer 2 and Layer 3 with MAC-VRF Instances
Figure 10 on page 25 shows that with MAC-VRF instances:
• You can configure different service types in different MAC-VRF instances on the same device.
• You have flexible tenant isolation options at Layer 2 (MAC-VRF instances) as well as at Layer 3 (VRF
instances). You can configure a VRF instance that corresponds to the VLAN or VLANs in a single
MAC-VRF instance. Or you can configure a VRF instance that spans the VLANs in multiple MAC-VRF
instances.
Figure 11 on page 26 shows an ERB overlay fabric with a sample MAC-VRF configuration for tenant
separation.

26
Figure 11: ERB Overlay Fabric with MAC-VRF Instances for Tenant Separation
In Figure 11 on page 26, the leaf devices establish VXLAN tunnels that maintain isolation at Layer 2
between Tenant 12 (VLAN 1 and VLAN 2) and Tenant 3 (VLAN 3) using MAC-VRF instances MAC-
VRF 12 and MAC-VRF 3. The leaf devices also isolate the tenants at Layer 3 using VRF instances
VRF 12 and VRF 3.
You can employ other options for sharing VLAN traffic between tenants that are isolated at Layer 2 and
Layer 3 by the MAC-VRF and VRF configurations, such as:
• Establish a secure external interconnection between tenant VRFs through a firewall.
• Configure local route leaking between Layer 3 VRFs.
For more information about MAC-VRF instances and using them in an example customer use case, see
EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC-VRF L2 Services.
MAC-VRF instances correspond to forwarding instances as follows:
• MAC-VRF instances on switches in the QFX5000 line (including those that run Junos OS or Junos
OS Evolved) are all part of the default forwarding instance. On these devices, you can’t configure
overlapping VLANs in a MAC-VRF instance or across multiple MAC-VRF instances.
• On the QFX10000 line of switches, you can configure multiple forwarding instances, and map a
MAC-VRF instance to a particular forwarding instance. You can also map multiple MAC-VRF
instances to the same forwarding instance. If you configure each MAC-VRF instance to use a
different forwarding instance, you can configure overlapping VLANs across the multiple MAC-VRF
instances. You can’t configure overlapping VLANs in a single MAC-VRF instance or across MAC-VRF
instances that map to the same forwarding instance.

27
• In the default configuration, switches include a default VLAN with VLAN ID=1 associated with the
default forwarding instance. Because VLAN IDs must be unique in a forwarding instance, if you want
to configure a VLAN with VLAN ID=1 in a MAC-VRF instance that uses the default forwarding
instance, you must reassign the VLAN ID of the default VLAN to a value other than 1. For example:
set vlans default vlan-id 4094
set routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name vlans vlan-name vlan-id 1
The reference network virtualization overlay configuration examples in this guide include steps to
configure the overlay using MAC-VRF instances. You configure an EVPN routing instance of type mac-vrf,
and set a route distinguisher and a route target in the instance. You also include the desired interfaces
(including a VTEP source interface), VLANs, and VLAN-to-VNI mappings in the instance. See the
reference configurations in the following topics:
• "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142—You configure MAC-VRF instances on
the leaf devices.
• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172—You configure MAC-
VRF instances on the spine devices. On the leaf devices, the MAC-VRF configuration is similar to the
MAC-VRF leaf configuration in a bridged overlay design.
• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236—You configure MAC-VRF
instances on the leaf devices.
NOTE: A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses
multiple MAC-VRF instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you
enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS
with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure shared tunnels, the device
minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. You globally enable
shared VXLAN tunnels on the device using the shared-tunnels statement at the [edit
forwarding-options evpn-vxlan] hierarchy level. This setting requires you to reboot the
device.
This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS, which
can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches.
On devices running Junos OS Evolved in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, shared tunnels are
enabled by default. Junos OS Evolved supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF
configurations.

28
Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems
Figure 12: Ethernet-Connected End System Multihoming
Ethernet-connected multihoming allows Ethernet-connected end systems to connect into the Ethernet
overlay network over a single-homed link to one VTEP device or over multiple links multihomed to
different VTEP devices. Ethernet traffic is load-balanced across the fabric between VTEPs on leaf
devices that connect to the same end system.
We tested setups where an Ethernet-connected end system was connected to a single leaf device or
multihomed to 2 or 3 leaf devices to prove traffic is properly handled in multihomed setups with more
than two leaf VTEP devices; in practice, an Ethernet-connected end system can be multihomed to a
large number of leaf VTEP devices. All links are active and network traffic can be load balanced over all
of the multihomed links.
In this architecture, EVPN is used for Ethernet-connected multihoming. EVPN multihomed LAGs are
identified by an Ethernet segment identifier (ESI) in the EVPN bridging overlay while LACP is used to
improve LAG availability.
VLAN trunking allows one interface to support multiple VLANs. VLAN trunking ensures that virtual
machines (VMs) on non-overlay hypervisors can operate in any overlay networking context.
For more information about Ethernet-connected multihoming support, see "Multihoming an Ethernet-
Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229.

29
Multihoming Support for IP-Connected End Systems
Figure 13: IP-Connected End System Multihoming
IP-connected multihoming endpoint systems to connect to the IP network over multiple IP-based access
interfaces on different leaf devices.
We tested setups where an IP–connected end system was connected to a single leaf or multihomed to 2
or 3 leaf devices. The setup validated that traffic is properly handled when multihomed to multiple leaf
devices; in practice, an IP-connected end system can be multihomed to a large number of leaf devices.
In multihomed setups, all links are active and network traffic is forwarded and received over all
multihomed links. IP traffic is load balanced across the multihomed links using a simple hashing
algorithm.
EBGP is used to exchange routing information between the IP-connected endpoint system and the
connected leaf devices to ensure the route or routes to the endpoint systems are shared with all spine
and leaf devices.
For more information about the IP-connected multihoming building block, see "Multihoming an IP-
Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 281.
Border Devices
Some of our reference designs include border devices that provide connections to the following devices,
which are external to the local IP fabric:
• A multicast gateway.

30
• A data center gateway for data center interconnect (DCI).
• A device such as an SRX router on which multiple services such as firewalls, Network Address
Translation (NAT), intrusion detection and prevention (IDP), multicast, and so on are consolidated.
The consolidation of multiple services onto one physical device is known as service chaining.
• Appliances or servers that act as firewalls, DHCP servers, sFlow collectors, and so on.
NOTE: If your network includes legacy appliances or servers that require a 1-Gbps
Ethernet connection to a border device, we recommend using a QFX10008 or a
QFX5120 switch as the border device.
To provide the additional functionality described above, Juniper Networks supports deploying a border
device in the following ways:
• As a device that serves as a border device only. In this dedicated role, you can configure the device to
handle one or more of the tasks described above. For this situation, the device is typically deployed
as a border leaf, which is connected to a spine device.
For example, in the ERB overlay shown in Figure 14 on page 31, border leafs L5 and L6 provide
connectivity to data center gateways for DCI, an sFlow collector, and a DHCP server.
• As a device that has two roles—a network underlay device and a border device that can handle one
or more of the tasks described above. For this situation, a spine device usually handles the two roles.
Therefore, the border device functionality is referred to as a border spine.
For example, in the ERB overlay shown in Figure 15 on page 31, border spines S1 and S2 function
as lean spine devices. They also provide connectivity to data center gateways for DCI, an sFlow
collector, and a DHCP server.

31
Figure 14: Sample ERB Topology with Border Leafs
Figure 15: Sample ERB Topology with Border Spines

32
Data Center Interconnect (DCI)
The data center interconnect (DCI) building block provides the technology needed to send traffic
between data centers. The validated design supports DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes, IPVPN routes, and
Layer 2 DCI with VXLAN stitching.
EVPN Type 5 or IPVPN routes are used in a DCI context to ensure inter-data center traffic between data
centers using different IP address subnetting schemes can be exchanged. Routes are exchanged
between spine devices in different data centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers.

33
Figure 16: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes Topology Overview
Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before you can configure DCI. The physical
connectivity is provided by backbone devices in a WAN cloud. A backbone device is connected to all
spine devices in a single data center (POD), as well as to the other backbone devices that are connected
to the other data centers.
For information about configuring DCI, see:

34
• "Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes " on page 361
• "Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN" on page 387
• "Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect" on page 391
Service Chaining
In many networks, it is common for traffic to flow through separate hardware devices that each provide
a service, such as firewalls, NAT, IDP, multicast, and so on. Each device requires separate operation and
management. This method of linking multiple network functions can be thought of as physical service
chaining.
A more efficient model for service chaining is to virtualize and consolidate network functions onto a
single device. In our blueprint architecture, we are using the SRX Series routers as the device that
consolidates network functions and processes and applies services. That device is called a physical
network function (PNF).
In this solution, service chaining is supported on both CRB overlay and ERB overlay. It works only for
inter-tenant traffic.
Logical View of Service Chaining
Figure 17 on page 34 shows a logical view of service chaining. It shows one spine with a right side
configuration and a left side configuration. On each side is a VRF routing instance and an IRB interface.
The SRX Series router in the center is the PNF, and it performs the service chaining.
Figure 17: Service Chaining Logical View

35
The flow of traffic in this logical view is:
1. The spine receives a packet on the VTEP that is in the left side VRF.
2. The packet is de-encapsulated and sent to the left side IRB interface.
3. The IRB interface routes the packet to the SRX Series router, which is acting as the PNF.
4. The SRX Series router performs service chaining on the packet and forwards the packet back to the
spine, where it is received on the IRB interface shown on the right side of the spine.
5. The IRB interface routes the packet to the VTEP in the right side VRF.
For information about configuring service chaining, see "Service Chaining Design and Implementation"
on page 508.
Multicast Optimizations
Multicast optimizations help to preserve bandwidth and more efficiently route traffic in a multicast
scenario in EVPN VXLAN environments. Without any multicast optimizations configured, all multicast
replication is done at the ingress of the leaf connected to the multicast source as shown in Figure 18 on
page 36. Multicast traffic is sent to all leaf devices that are connected to the spine. Each leaf device
sends traffic to connected hosts.

36
Figure 18: Multicast without Optimizations
There are a few types of multicast optimizations supported in EVPN VXLAN environments that can
work together:
For information about configuring multicast features, see:
• "Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation" on page 533
• "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlays" on page 546
IGMP Snooping
IGMP snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric is useful to optimize the distribution of multicast traffic.
IGMP snooping preserves bandwidth because multicast traffic is forwarded only on interfaces where
there are IGMP listeners. Not all interfaces on a leaf device need to receive multicast traffic.
Without IGMP snooping, end systems receive IP multicast traffic that they have no interest in, which
needlessly floods their links with unwanted traffic. In some cases when IP multicast flows are large,
flooding unwanted traffic causes denial-of-service issues.
Figure 19 on page 37 shows how IGMP snooping works in an EVPN-VXLAN fabric. In this sample
EVPN-VXLAN fabric, IGMP snooping is configured on all leaf devices, and multicast receiver 2 has
previously sent an IGMPv2 join request.
1. Multicast Receiver 2 sends an IGMPv2 leave request.

37
2. Multicast Receivers 3 and 4 send an IGMPv2 join request.
3. When leaf 1 receives ingress multicast traffic, it replicates it for all leaf devices, and forwards it to the
spine.
4. The spine forwards the traffic to all leaf devices.
5. Leaf 2 receives the multicast traffic, but does not forward it to the receiver because the receiver sent
an IGMP leave message.
Figure 19: Multicast with IGMP Snooping
In EVPN-VXLAN networks only IGMP version 2 is supported.
For more information about IGMP snooping, see Overview of Multicast Forwarding with IGMP
Snooping or MLD Snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment.
Selective Multicast Forwarding
Selective multicast Ethernet (SMET) forwarding provides greater end-to-end network efficiency and
reduces traffic in the EVPN network. It conserves bandwidth usage in the core of the fabric and reduces
the load on egress devices that do not have listeners.
Devices with IGMP snooping enabled use selective multicast forwarding to forward multicast traffic in
an efficient way. With IGMP snooping enabled a leaf device sends multicast traffic only to the access

38
interface with an interested receiver. With SMET added, the leaf device selectively sends multicast
traffic to only the leaf devices in the core that have expressed an interest in that multicast group.
Figure 20 on page 38 shows the SMET traffic flow along with IGMP snooping.
1. Multicast Receiver 2 sends an IGMPv2 leave request.
2. Multicast Receivers 3 and 4 send an IGMPv2 join request.
3. When leaf 1 receives ingress multicast traffic, it replicates the traffic only to leaf devices with
interested receivers (leaf devices 3 and 4), and forwards it to the spine.
4. The spine forwards the traffic to leaf devices 3 and 4.
Figure 20: Selective Multicast Forwarding with IGMP Snooping
You do not need to enable SMET; it is enabled by default when IGMP snooping is configured on the
device.
For more information about SMET, see Overview of Selective Multicast Forwarding.
Assisted Replication of Multicast Traffic
The assisted replication (AR) feature offloads EVPN-VXLAN fabric leaf devices from ingress replication
tasks. The ingress leaf does not replicate multicast traffic. It sends one copy of the multicast traffic to a
spine that is configured as an AR replicator device. The AR replicator device distributes and controls

39
multicast traffic. In addition to reducing the replication load on the ingress leaf devices, this method
conserves bandwidth in the fabric between the leaf and the spine.
Figure 21 on page 39 shows how AR works along with IGMP snooping and SMET.
1. Leaf 1, which is set up as the AR leaf device, receives multicast traffic and sends one copy to the
spine that is set up as the AR replicator device.
2. The spine replicates the multicast traffic. It replicates traffic for leaf devices that are provisioned with
the VLAN VNI in which the multicast traffic originated from Leaf 1.
Because we have IGMP snooping and SMET configured in the network, the spine sends the multicast
traffic only to leaf devices with interested receivers.
Figure 21: Multicast with AR, IGMP Snooping, and SMET
In this document, we show multicast optimizations on a small scale. In a full-scale network with many
spines and leafs, the benefits of the optimizations are much more apparent.
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks
When you have multicast sources and receivers both inside and outside an ERB overlay fabric, you can
configure optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) to enable efficient multicast traffic flow at scale.
OISM uses a local routing model for multicast traffic, which avoids traffic hairpinning and minimizes the
traffic load within the EVPN core. OISM forwards multicast traffic only on the multicast source VLAN.

40
For intersubnet receivers, the leaf devices use IRB interfaces to locally route the traffic received on the
source VLAN to other receiver VLANs on the same device. To further optimize multicast traffic flow in
the EVPN-VXLAN fabric, OISM uses IGMP snooping and SMET to forward traffic in the fabric only to
leaf devices with interested receivers.
OISM also enables the fabric to effectively route traffic from external multicast sources to internal
receivers, and from internal multicast sources to external receivers. OISM uses a supplemental bridge
domain (SBD) within the fabric to forward multicast traffic received on the border leaf devices from
outside sources. The SBD design preserves the local routing model for externally-sourced traffic.
You can use OISM with AR to reduce the replication load on lower-capacity OISM leaf devices. (See
"Assisted Replication of Multicast Traffic" on page 38.)
See Figure 22 on page 41 for a simple fabric with OISM and AR.

41
Figure 22: OISM with AR
Figure 22 on page 41 shows OISM server leaf and border leaf devices, Spine 1 in the AR replicator role,
and Server Leaf 1 as a multicast source in the AR leaf role. An external source and receivers might also
exist in the external PIM domain. OISM and AR work together in this scenario as follows:
1. Multicast receivers behind Server Leaf 3 on VLAN 1 and behind Server Leaf 4 on VLAN 2 send IGMP
Joins showing interested in the multicast group. External receivers might also join the multicast
group.
2. The multicast source behind Server Leaf 1 sends multicast traffic for the group into the fabric on
VLAN 1. Server Leaf 1 sends only one copy of the traffic to the AR replicator on Spine 1.
3. Also, external source traffic for the multicast group arrives at Border Leaf 1. Border Leaf 1 forwards
the traffic on the SBD to Spine 1, the AR replicator.

42
4. The AR replicator sends copies from the internal source on the source VLAN and from the external
source on the SBD to the OISM leaf devices with interested receivers.
5. The server leaf devices forward the traffic to the receivers on the source VLAN, and locally route the
traffic to the receivers on the other VLANs.
Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN
When virtual machines and hosts are moved within a data center or from one data center to another,
network traffic can become inefficient if the traffic is not routed to the optimal gateway. This can
happen when a host is relocated. The ARP table does not always get flushed and data flow to the host is
sent to the configured gateway even when there is a more optimal gateway. The traffic is “tromboned”
and routed unnecessarily to the configured gateway.
Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) provides greater network efficiency and optimizes
ingress traffic and can eliminate the trombone effect between VLANs. When you enable ingress VMTO,
routes are stored in a Layer 3 virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) table and the device routes inbound
traffic directly back to host that was relocated.
Figure 23 on page 43 shows tromboned traffic without ingress VMTO and optimized traffic with
ingress VMTO enabled.
• Without ingress VMTO, Spine 1 and 2 from DC1 and DC2 all advertise the remote IP host route
10.0.0.1 when the origin route is from DC2. The ingress traffic can be directed to either Spine 1 and
2 in DC1. It is then routed to Spine 1 and 2 in DC2 where route 10.0.0.1 was moved. This causes the
tromboning effect.
• With ingress VMTO, we can achieve optimal forwarding path by configuring a policy for IP host route
(10.0.01) to only be advertised by Spine 1 and 2 from DC2, and not from DC1 when the IP host is
moved to DC2.

43
Figure 23: Traffic with and without Ingress VMTO
For information about configuring VMTO, see "Configuring VMTO" on page 723.

44
DHCP Relay
Figure 24: DHCP Relay in a CRB Overlay
The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) relay building block allows the network to pass DHCP
messages between a DHCP client and a DHCP server. The DHCP relay implementation in this building
block moves DHCP packets through a CRB overlay where the gateway is located at the spine layer.
The DHCP server and the DHCP clients connect into the network using access interfaces on leaf
devices. The DHCP server and clients can communicate with each other over the existing network
without further configuration when the DHCP client and server are in the same VLAN. When a DHCP
client and server are in different VLANs, DHCP traffic between the client and server is forwarded
between the VLANs via the IRB interfaces on spine devices. You must configure the IRB interfaces on
the spine devices to support DHCP relay between VLANs.
For information about implementing the DHCP relay, see "DHCP Relay Design and Implementation" on
page 724.

45
Reducing ARP Traffic with ARP Synchronization and Suppression (Proxy
ARP)
The goal of ARP synchronization is to synchronize ARP tables across all the VRFs that serve an overlay
subnet to reduce the amount of traffic and optimize processing for both network devices and end
systems. When an IP gateway for a subnet learns about an ARP binding, it shares it with other gateways
so they do not need to discover the same ARP binding independently.
With ARP suppression, when a leaf device receives an ARP request, it checks its own ARP table that is
synchronized with the other VTEP devices and responds to the request locally rather than flooding the
ARP request.
Proxy ARP and ARP suppression are enabled by default on all QFX Series switches that can act as leaf
devices in an ERB overlay. For a list of these switches, see "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference
Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51.
IRB interfaces on the leaf device deliver ARP requests and NDP requests from both local and remote
leaf devices. When a leaf device receives an ARP request or NDP request from another leaf device, the
receiving device searches its MAC+IP address bindings database for the requested IP address.
• If the device finds the MAC+IP address binding in its database, it responds to the request.
• If the device does not find the MAC+IP address binding, it floods the ARP request to all Ethernet
links in the VLAN and the associated VTEPs.
Because all participating leaf devices add the ARP entries and synchronize their routing and bridging
tables, local leaf devices respond directly to requests from locally connected hosts and remove the need
for remote devices to respond to these ARP requests.
For information about implementing the ARP synchronization, Proxy ARP, and ARP suppression, see
Enabling Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay.
Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End Systems
CRB and ERB overlays support the security features on Layer 2 Ethernet-connected end systems that
we describe in the next sections.
For more information about these features, see MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring
Support in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment.
For information about configuring these features, see "Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on
Ethernet-Connected End Systems" on page 734.

46
Preventing BUM Traffic Storms With Storm Control
Storm control can prevent excessive traffic from degrading the network. It lessens the impact of BUM
traffic storms by monitoring traffic levels on EVPN-VXLAN interfaces, and dropping BUM traffic when a
specified traffic level is exceeded.
In an EVPN-VXLAN environment, storm control monitors:
• Layer 2 BUM traffic that originates in a VXLAN and is forwarded to interfaces within the same
VXLAN.
• Layer 3 multicast traffic that is received by an IRB interface in a VXLAN and is forwarded to
interfaces in another VXLAN.
Using MAC Filtering to Enhance Port Security
MAC filtering enhances port security by limiting the number of MAC addresses that can be learned
within a VLAN and therefore limit the traffic in a VXLAN. Limiting the number of MAC addresses
protects the switch from flooding the Ethernet switching table. Flooding of the Ethernet switching table
occurs when the number of new MAC addresses that are learned causes the table to overflow, and
previously learned MAC addresses are flushed from the table. The switch relearns the MAC addresses,
which can impact performance and introduce security vulnerabilities.
In this blueprint, MAC filtering limits the number of accepted packets that are sent to ingress-facing
access interfaces based on MAC addresses. For more information about how MAC filtering works, see
the MAC limiting information in Understanding MAC Limiting and MAC Move Limiting.
Analyzing Traffic Using Port Mirroring
With analyzer-based port mirroring, you can analyze traffic down to the packet level in an EVPN-VXLAN
environment. You can use this feature to enforce policies related to network usage and file sharing and
to identify problem sources by locating abnormal or heavy bandwidth usage by particular stations or
applications.
Port mirroring copies packets entering or exiting a port or entering a VLAN and sends the copies to a
local interface for local monitoring or to a VLAN for remote monitoring. Use port mirroring to send
traffic to applications that analyze traffic for purposes such as monitoring compliance, enforcing policies,
detecting intrusions, monitoring and predicting traffic patterns, correlating events, and so on.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Infrastructure as a Service: EVPN and VXLAN Solution Guide
Juniper Networks EVPN Implementation for Next-Generation Data Center Architectures

2
CHAPTER
Data Center Fabric Reference Design
—Tested Implementation
IN THIS CHAPTER
Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology |
49
IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81
Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97
BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with EVPN-VXLAN
Implementation | 104
IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation
with EBGP | 114
BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center | 123
Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 172
Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System Design and
Implementation | 229
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236
Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation |
281
Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation | 285
Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation | 315
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation | 353
Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes
| 361

Data Center Interconnect Design and Implementation Using IPVPN | 387
Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 391
EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching | 430
Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching Through Interconnected
EVPN-MPLS WAN Gateways | 477
Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q | 486
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels | 501
Service Chaining Design and Implementation | 508
Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation | 523
Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation | 533
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays | 546
Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) Implementation | 613
Configure VMTO | 723
DHCP Relay Design and Implementation | 724
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlay | 730
Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End
Systems | 734

49
Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and
Validated Topology
IN THIS SECTION
Reference Design Overview | 49
Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary | 51
Interfaces Summary | 79
This section provides a high-level overview of the Data Center Fabric reference design topology and
summarizes the topologies that were tested and validated by the Juniper Networks Test Team.
NOTE: Contact your local account manager for details on the tested scale for all
supported features.
Reference Design Overview
The Data Center Fabric reference design tested by Juniper Networks is based on an IP Fabric underlay in
a Clos topology that uses the following devices:
• Spine devices: up to four.
• Leaf devices: the number of leaf devices supported by Juniper Networks varies depending on the
Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved software release and overlay type (centrally-routed bridging overlay
or edge-routed bridging overlay).
The number of tested leaf nodes reflected throughout this guide is 96, which was number tested in
the initial reference design.
Each leaf device is interconnected to each spine device using either an aggregated Ethernet interface
that includes two high-speed Ethernet interfaces (10-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps) as LAG members or
a single high-speed Ethernet interface.
Figure 25 on page 50 provides an illustration of the topology used in this reference design:

50
Figure 25: Data Center Fabric Reference Design - Topology
End systems such as servers connect to the data center network through leaf device interfaces. Each
end system was multihomed to three leaf devices using a 3-member aggregated Ethernet interface as
shown in Figure 26 on page 51.

51
Figure 26: Data Center Fabric Reference Design - Multihoming
The objective for multihoming end systems to 3 different leaf devices is to verify that multihoming of an
end system to more than 2 leaf devices is fully supported.
Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported
Hardware Summary
Table 2 on page 52 provides a summary of the hardware that you can use to create the reference
designs described in this guide. The table is organized by use cases, roles that devices play in each use
case, and the hardware supported for each role.
NOTE:
• For each use case, we support the hardware listed in Table 2 on page 52 only with
the associated Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved software releases.
• To learn about any existing issues and limitations for a hardware device in this
reference design, see the release notes for the Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
software release with which the device was tested.

52
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Centrally Routed Bridging Overlay
Spine QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
MX Series
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700
Server leaf QFX5100 17.3R3-S1
QFX5110
QFX5200
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX5210-64C 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C

53
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5120-48T 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM4 20.4R3
Border spine5 (data center gateway, QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
and data center interconnect (DCI)
QFX10008
using IPVPN)
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX10002-60C3 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 23.2R2-EVO
QFX5700

54
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border spine5 (data center gateway, QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
and data center interconnect (DCI)
QFX10008
using EVPN Type 5 routes)
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX10002-60C3 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700

55
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border spine5 (service chaining) QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX10002-60C2 19.1R2
QFX5120-32C 20.2R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700

56
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border leaf (data center gateway, and QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
DCI using IPVPN)
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX10002-60C3 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
Border leaf (data center gateway, and QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes)
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2

57
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX10002-60C3 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
Border leaf (service chaining) QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3

58
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX10002-60C2 19.1R2
QFX5120-32C 20.2R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008

59
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Lean super spine QFX5110 20.2R2
QFX5120-32C
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5200
QFX5210-64C
QFX5220-32CD
QFX5220-128C
QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
ACX7100-32C 21.2R2-S1-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay

60
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Lean spine QFX5200 17.3R3-S1
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5210-64C
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C
QFX5220-32CD 20.2R2
QFX5220-128C
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
ACX7100-32C 21.2R2-S1-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO

61
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Lean spine with IPv6 underlay QFX5120-32C 21.2R2-S1
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 21.4R2
ACX7024 24.2R2-EVO
ACX7100-32C
ACX7100-48L
Server leaf QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX10002-60C 19.1R2
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX5120-48T 20.2R2
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3

62
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
Server leaf with IPv6 underlay QFX5120-32C 21.2R2-S1
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 21.4R2
ACX7024 24.2R2-EVO
ACX7100-32C
ACX7100-48L

63
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Server leaf with optimized intersubnet QFX5110 21.4R2
multicast (OISM)
QFX5120-32C
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5130-32CD 22.2R2-EVO
QFX5700
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
Server leaf with Enhanced OISM QFX5120-32C 23.4R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5130-32CD 23.4R2-EVO
QFX5700
Border spine5 (data center gateway QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
and DCI using IPVPN)
QFX10008
QFX10016

64
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
MX204 18.4R2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-48Y2
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX5120-48T2 20.2R2
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
Border spine5 (data center gateway QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
and DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes)
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3

65
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
MX204 18.4R2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-48Y2
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX5120-48T2 20.2R2
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO

66
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border spine5 (service chaining) QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y2 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX10002-60C2
QFX5120-48T2 20.2R2
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700

67
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
Border spine with IPv6 underlay5 QFX5120-32C 21.2R2-S1
(including data center gateway, DCI
QFX5120-48T
using EVPN Type 5 routes and IPVPN,
and service chaining)
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 21.4R2
Border spine with IPv6 underlay5 ACX7024 24.2R2-EVO
(including data center gateway, DCI
ACX7100-32C
using EVPN Type 5 routes, and service
chaining)
ACX7100-48L

68
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border spine with DCI gateway— ACX7024 23.4R2-EVO
EVPN-VXLAN to EVPN-MPLS
ACX7100-32C
stitching
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10008
Border leaf (data center gateway, and QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
DCI using IPVPN)
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y2 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX5120-48T2 20.2R2
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3

69
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
Border leaf (data center gateway, and QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes)
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
QFX5120-48Y2 18.4R2
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2
QFX5120-48T2 20.2R2
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700

70
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
Border leaf (service chaining) QFX10002-36Q/72Q 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5110 18.1R3-S3
MX204 18.4R2-S2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C 20.2R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-60C3
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3

71
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
Border leaf with IPv6 underlay QFX5120-32C 21.2R2-S1
(including data center gateway, DCI
QFX5120-48T
using EVPN Type 5 routes and IPVPN,
and service chaining)
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 21.4R2
Border leaf with IPv6 underlay ACX7024 24.2R2-EVO
(including data center gateway, DCI
ACX7100-32C
using EVPN Type 5 routes, and service
chaining)
ACX7100-48L

72
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border leaf with DCI gateway and QFX10002-36Q/72Q 20.4R3-S1
asymmetric IRB—EVPN-VXLAN to
QFX10002-60C
EVPN-VXLAN stitching for Layer 2
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5130-32CD 22.2R2-EVO
QFX5700
QFX5120-32C 23.2R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5120-48YM
ACX7024 24.2R2-EVO
ACX7100-32C
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008

73
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border leaf with DCI gateway and QFX5120-32C 23.2R2
symmetric IRB—EVPN-VXLAN to
QFX5120-48T
EVPN-VXLAN stitching for Layer 2
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5120-48YM
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10008
QFX10016
ACX7100-32C 23.2R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700

74
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Border leaf with DCI gateway—EVPN- MX204 22.4R2
VXLAN to EVPN-VXLAN stitching for
MX240,MX480, and MX960 with
EVPN Type 5 routes
MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5120-32C
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5120-48YM
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-32C
ACX7100-48L
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
Border leaf with DCI gateway—EVPN- MX Series 21.4R2
VXLAN to EVPN-MPLS stitching

75
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
ACX7024 23.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-32C
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10008
Border leaf with optimized intersubnet QFX10002-36Q/72Q 21.4R2
multicast (OISM)
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-32C 22.2R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5130-32CD 22.2R2-EVO
QFX5700
PTX10001 23.2R2-EVO
PTX10004
PTX10008
Border leaf with Enhanced OISM QFX5120-32C 23.4R2
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y

76
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
QFX5130-32CD 23.4R2-EVO
QFX5700
Lean super spine QFX5110 20.2R2
QFX5120-32C
QFX5120-48Y
QFX5200
QFX5210-64C
QFX5220-32CD
QFX5220-128C
QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
ACX7100-32C 21.2R2-S1-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
QFX5130-32CD
QFX5700
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO

77
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Lean Super Spine with IPv6 underlay QFX5120-32C 21.2R2-S1
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q
QFX10002-60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 21.4R2
Collapsed spine
Leaf with Virtual Chassis QFX5100 20.2R2
QFX5110
QFX5120

78
Table 2: Data Center Fabric Reference Design Supported Hardware Summary (Continued)
Device Roles Hardware4 Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved
(EVO) Software Releases1
Collapsed spine MX204 20.2R2
MX240, MX480, and MX960
with MPC7E
MX10003
MX10008
QFX5110
QFX5120-32C
QFX5120-48T
QFX5120-48Y
QFX10002-36Q/72Q/60C
QFX10008
QFX10016
QFX5120-48YM 20.4R3
QFX5130-32CD 21.2R2-S1-EVO
QFX5700
ACX7100-32C 21.4R2-EVO
ACX7100-48L
PTX10001
PTX10004
PTX10008
ACX7024 22.4R2-EVO
1 This column includes the initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release train with which we introduce
support for the hardware in the reference design. For each initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release

79
train, we also support the hardware with later releases in the same release train. Although we list the
initial Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved release train here, we recommend that you use the most recent
hardened releases that are listed on the following page: Data Center Architectures Hardened Release
Information for EVPN/VXLAN.
2 While functioning in this role, this hardware does not support centrally routed multicast.
3 While functioning in this role, the QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast traffic. However, this
switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q switches.
4 For multicast support, consult the Pathfinder Feature Explorer application for multicast features and
the releases that support the feature on each platform.
5 For devices in the border spine role, set a larger value for Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
timers in the overlay—4 seconds or higher, with a multiplier of 3. These settings help avoid potential
flapping of the spine-to-leaf connection due to BFD control timer expiration.
This table does not include backbone devices that connect the data center to a WAN cloud. Backbone
devices provide physical connectivity between data centers and are required for DCI. See "Data Center
Interconnect Design and Implementation Using Type 5 Routes " on page 361.
Interfaces Summary
This section summarizes the interface connections between spine and leaf devices that were validated
in this reference design.
It contains the following sections:
Interfaces Overview
In the validated reference design, spine and leaf devices are interconnected using either an aggregated
Ethernet interface that includes two high-speed Ethernet interfaces or a single high-speed Ethernet
interface.
The reference design was validated with the following combinations of spine and leaf device
interconnections:
• See Table 2 on page 52 for the interconnected platforms tested in spine and leaf device roles as of
the indicated Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved hardening releases.
We use 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps interfaces on the supported platforms to
interconnect spine and leaf devices. Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2, we
also use 400-Gbps interfaces to interconnect leaf and spine devices that support this speed.

80
• We validated combinations of aggregated Ethernet interfaces containing two 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-
Gbps, 100-Gbps, and 400-Gbps member interfaces between the supported platforms.
• We validated channelized 10-Gbps, 25-Gbps, 40-Gbps, or 100-Gbps interfaces used to interconnect
spine and leaf devices as single links or as member links in a 2-member aggregated Ethernet bundle.
Spine Device Interface Summary
As previously stated, the validated design includes up to 4 spine devices and leaf devices that are
interconnected by one or two high-speed Ethernet interfaces.
QFX10008 and QFX10016 switches were used as they can achieve the port density necessary for this
reference design. See QFX10008 Hardware Overview or QFX10016 Hardware Overview for
information on supported line cards and the number of high-speed Ethernet interfaces supported on
these switches.
QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10002-60C, and QFX5120-32C switches, however, do not have the port
density to support this reference design at the larger scales but can be deployed as spine devices in
smaller scale environments. See QFX10002 Hardware Overview and QFX5120 System Overview for
information about the number of high-speed Ethernet interfaces supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q,
QFX10002-60C, and QFX5120-32C switches, respectively.
All channelized spine device interface options are tested and supported in the validated reference
design.
Leaf Device Interface Summary
Each leaf device in the reference design connects to the four spine devices and has the port density to
support this reference design.
The number and types of high-speed Ethernet interfaces used as uplink interfaces to spine devices vary
by leaf device switch model.
To see which high-speed interfaces are available with each leaf device switch model, see the following
documents:
• QFX5200 Switch Description
• QFX5100 Device Hardware Overview
• QFX5110 Hardware Overview
• QFX5120 System Overview
• QFX5210 System Overview
• QFX5220 System Overview

81
• QFX10002 Switch Description
• QFX10008 System Overview
• QFX10016 System Overview
• MX Series Routers
• QFX5130 System Overview
• QFX5700 System Overview
• PTX10001-36MR System Overview
• PTX10004 System Overview
• PTX10008 System Overview
• ACX7024 and ACX7024X System Overview
• ACX7100-32C System Overview
• ACX7100-48L System Overview
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components | 9
IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and
Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices | 84
Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link | 89
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network | 90
Enabling Load Balancing | 93

82
Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links in Aggregated Ethernet
Interfaces | 94
IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History | 96
For an overview of the supported IP fabric underlay models and components used in these designs, see
the IP Fabric Underlay Network section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on
page 9.
This section explains how to configure spine and leaf devices in 3-stage and 5-stage IPv4 fabric
underlays. For information about how to configure the additional tier of super spine devices in a 5-stage
IP fabric underlay, see "Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation" on page 285. For the steps to
configure an IPv6 Fabric design in reference architectures that support that configuration, see "IPv6
Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead.
The IP underlay network building block is arranged in a Clos-based fabric topology. The underlay
network uses EBGP as the routing protocol in place of a traditional IGP like OSPF. You can use other
routing protocols in the underlay protocol in your data center; the usage of those routing protocols is
beyond the scope of this document.
Aggregated Ethernet interfaces with MicroBFD are also used in this building block. MicroBFD improves
fault detection in an aggregated Ethernet interface by running BFD on individual links of the aggregated
Ethernet interface.
Figure 27 on page 83 and Figure 28 on page 84 provide high-level illustrations of a 3-stage and 5-
stage IP fabric underlay networks, respectively.

83
Figure 27: Three-Stage IP Fabric Underlay Network

84
Figure 28: Five-Stage IP Fabric Underlay Network
Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine
Devices to Leaf Devices
In this design each spine device is interconnected to each leaf device using a single link or a two-
member aggregated Ethernet interface. The decision to use a single link or an aggregated Ethernet
interface largely depends on the needs of your network; see "Data Center Fabric Reference Design
Overview and Validated Topology" on page 49 for more information on interface requirements.
The majority of IP Fabric topologies do not use aggregated Ethernet interfaces to interconnect spine and
leaf devices. You can skip this section if you are connecting your spine and leaf devices using single links.
Use the following instructions to configure the interfaces that interconnect spine and leaf devices as
aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two member links. An IPv4 address is assigned to each aggregated
Ethernet interface. LACP with a fast periodic interval is also enabled.

85
Figure 29 on page 85 shows the spine device interfaces that are configured in this procedure:
Figure 29: Spine 1 Interfaces
Figure 30 on page 85 shows the leaf device interfaces that are configured in this procedure:
Figure 30: Leaf 1 Interfaces
To configure aggregated Ethernet interfaces with fast LACP:

86
1. Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces permitted on the device.
We recommend setting this number to the exact number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on your
device, including aggregated Ethernet interfaces that are not used for spine to leaf device
connections.
In this example, the aggregated Ethernet device count value is set at 10 for a leaf device and 100 for
a spine device.
Leaf Device:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 10
Spine Device:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 100
2. Create and name the aggregated Ethernet interfaces, and optionally assign a description to each
interface.
This step shows how to create three aggregated Ethernet interfaces on spine 1 and four aggregated
ethernet interfaces on leaf 1.
Repeat this procedure for every aggregated Ethernet interface connecting a spine device to a leaf
device.
Spine 1:
set interfaces ae1 description "LEAF1"
set interfaces ae2 description "LEAF2"
set interfaces ae3 description "LEAF3"
Leaf 1:
set interfaces ae1 description "SPINE1"
set interfaces ae2 description "SPINE2"
set interfaces ae3 description "SPINE3"
set interfaces ae4 description "SPINE4"
3. Assign interfaces to each aggregated Ethernet interface on your device.

87
Spine 1:
set interfaces et-0/0/64 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/65 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/60 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/61 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/62 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/63 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
Leaf 1:
set interfaces et-0/0/48 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-1/0/48 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/49 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-1/0/49 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/50 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-1/0/50 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/51 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces et-1/0/51 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
4. Assign an IP address to each aggregated Ethernet interface on the device.
Spine 1:
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.2/30
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.2.2/30
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.3.2/30
Leaf 1:
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.1/30
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.5/30
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.9/30
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.13/30
5. Enable fast LACP on every aggregated Ethernet interface on the device.
LACP is enabled using the fast periodic interval, which configures LACP to send a packet every
second.

88
Spine 1:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
Leaf 1:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
...
...
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
6. After the configuration is committed, confirm that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are enabled,
that the physical links are up, and that packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent.
The output below provides this confirmation information for ae1 on Spine 1.
user@spine-1> show interfaces ae1
Physical interface: ae1, Enabled, Physical link is Up
(some output removed for brevity)
Logical interface ae1.0 (Index 549) (SNMP ifIndex 541)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4004000 Encapsulation: ENET2
Statistics Packets pps Bytes bps
Bundle:
Input : 609303 0 57831130 0
Output: 7063505 0 4664278858 0
(some output removed for brevity)
7. Confirm the LACP receive state is Current and that the transmit state is Fast for each link in each
aggregated Ethernet interface bundle.

89
The output below provides LACP status for interface ae1.
user@spine-1> show lacp interfaces ae1
Aggregated interface: ae1
...(some output removed for brevity)
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
(additional output removed for brevity)
8. Repeat this procedure for every device in your topology.
The guide presumes that spine and leaf devices are interconnected by two-member aggregated
Ethernet interfaces in other sections. When you are configuring or monitoring a single link instead of
an aggregated Ethernet link, substitute the physical interface name of the single link interface in
place of the aggregated Ethernet interface name.
Configuring an IP Address for an Individual Link
This section covers the procedure to add an IP address to a single link interface connecting a spine or
leaf device. The process for adding an IP address to an aggregated Ethernet interface is covered in
"Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices to Leaf Devices" on page 84.
To add an IP address to a single link interface:
1. Assign an IP address to each interface.
Spine 1 Example:
set interfaces et-0/0/64 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.2/30
set interfaces et-0/0/65 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.2.2/30
set interfaces et-0/0/66 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.3.2/30
Leaf 1 Example:
set interfaces et-0/0/48 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.1/30
set interfaces et-0/0/49 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.5/30
set interfaces et-0/0/50 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.9/30
set interfaces et-0/0/51 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.13/30

90
2. After the interface configuration is committed, confirm that the interfaces are enabled, that the
physical links are up, and that packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent.
The output below provides this confirmation information for et-0/0/64 on Spine 1.
user@spine-1> show interfaces et-0/0/64
Physical interface: et-0/0/64, Enabled, Physical link is Up
(some output removed for brevity)
Logical interface ae1.0 (Index 549) (SNMP ifIndex 541)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4004000 Encapsulation: ENET2
Statistics Packets pps Bytes bps
Bundle:
Input : 609303 0 57831130 0
Output: 7063505 0 4664278858 0
(some output removed for brevity)
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the Underlay Network
In this design, EBGP is the routing protocol of the underlay network and each device in the IP fabric is
assigned a unique 32-bit autonomous system number (ASN). The underlay routing configuration ensures
that all devices in the underlay IP fabric are reliably reachable from one another. Reachability between
VTEP across the underlay IP Fabric is also required to support overlay networking with VXLAN.
Figure 31 on page 91 shows the EBGP configuration of the underlay network.

91
Figure 31: EBGP Underlay Network Overview
To enable EBGP as the routing protocol for the underlay network on a device:
1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.
The underlay EBGP group is named UNDERLAY in this design.
Spine or Leaf Device:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY type external
2. Configure the ASN for each device in the underlay.
Recall that in this design, every device is assigned a unique ASN in the underlay network. The ASN
for EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using the local-as
statement because the system ASN setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the overlay network.
The examples below show how to configure the ASN for EBGP for Spine 1 and Leaf 1.
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY local-as 4200000001
Leaf 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY local-as 4200000011

92
3. Configure BGP peers by specifying the ASN of each BGP peer in the underlay network on each spine
and leaf device.
In this design, for a spine device, every leaf device is a BGP peer, and for a leaf device, every spine
device is a BGP peer.
The example below demonstrates how to configure the peer ASN in this design.
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.1.1 peer-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.2.1 peer-as 4200000012
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.3.1 peer-as 4200000013
Leaf 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.1.2 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.1.6 peer-as 4200000002
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.1.10 peer-as 4200000003
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY neighbor 172.16.1.14 peer-as 4200000004
4. Set the BGP hold time. The BGP hold time is the length of time, in seconds, that a peer waits for a
BGP message—typically a keepalive, update, or notification message—before closing a BGP
connection.
Shorter BGP hold time values guard against BGP sessions staying open for unnecessarily long times
in scenarios where problems occur, such as keepalives not being sent. A longer BGP hold time
ensures BGP sessions remain active even during problem periods.
The BGP hold time is configured at 10 seconds for every device in this design.
Spine or Leaf Device:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY hold-time 10
5. Configure EBGP to signal the unicast address family for the underlay BGP peer group.
Spine or Leaf Device:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY family inet unicast
6. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IP address of the loopback interface to EBGP
peering devices.

93
This export routing policy is used to make the IP address of the loopback interface reachable from all
devices in the IP Fabric. Loopback IP address reachability is required to allow leaf and spine device
peering using MP-IBGP in the overlay network. IBGP peering in the overlay network must be
established to allow devices in the fabric to share EVPN routes. See "Configure IBGP for the Overlay"
on page 97.
The route filter IP address in this step—192.168.1.10—is the loopback address of the leaf device.
Leaf 1:
set policy-options policy-statement BGP_LOOPBACK0 term TERM1 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement BGP_LOOPBACK0 term TERM1 from route-filter
192.168.1.10/32 exact
set policy-options policy-statement BGP_LOOPBACK0 term TERM1 then accept
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY export BGP_LOOPBACK0
7. After committing the configuration, enter the show bgp summary command on each device to
confirm that the BGP state is established and that traffic paths are active.
Issue the show bgp summary command on Spine 1 to verify EBGP status.
user@spine-1> show bgp summary
Groups: 1 Peers: 96 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
inet.0 834 232 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.1.1 4200000011 13530 13750 0 0 10:21:37 Establ inet.0:
204/209/209/0
172.16.2.1 4200000012 13532 13821 0 0 10:21:33 Establ inet.0:
27/209/209/0
(additional output removed for brevity)
8. Repeat this procedure for every spine and leaf device in your topology.
Enabling Load Balancing
ECMP load balancing allows traffic to be sent to the same destination over multiple equal cost paths.
Load balancing must be enabled on all spine and leaf devices to ensure that traffic is sent over all
available paths provided by the IP Fabric.

94
Traffic is load balanced per Layer 4 flow on Junos devices. The ECMP algorithm load balances each
traffic flow over one of the multiple paths, and all traffic for that flow is transmitted using the selected
link.
To enable ECMP-based load balancing on a device:
1. Enable multipath with the multiple AS option in BGP on all devices in the IP Fabric.
EBGP, by default, selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table.
When BGP multipath is enabled, all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the
forwarding table. The multiple-as option enables load balancing between EBGP neighbors in different
autonomous systems.
All Spine and Leaf Devices:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY multipath multiple-as
2. Create a policy statement that enables per-packet load balancing.
All Spine and Leaf Devices:
set policy-options policy-statement PFE-ECMP then load-balance per-packet
3. Export the policy statement to the forwarding table.
All Spine and Leaf Devices:
set routing-options forwarding-table export PFE-ECMP
Configuring Micro Bidirectional Forwarding Detection on Member Links
in Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces
BFD is a simple bidirectional fault detection protocol that verifies bidirectional connectivity between
directly-connected devices by periodically and rapidly sending a simple hello packet over the link or links
that interconnect the devices. BFD can detect and communicate link faults in sub-second time frames to
allow the control-plane software to quickly switch to an alternate path.
MicroBFD allows BFD to run on individual member links in an aggregated Ethernet interface.
In this design, microBFD is supported on connections between QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and
QFX10016 switches.
To enable microBFD:

95
1. Set the minimum interval for BFD.
The minimum interval is the amount of time in milliseconds between hello packets BFD sends to a
directly connected neighbor. It is also the basis for the amount of time that BFD waits to receive a
response to hello packets before directing traffic destined to that link to other member links in the
aggregated Ethernet interface. The actual wait time factors in a multiplier that represents the number
of hello packet intervals that go by without a response before BFD declares the peer to be down. You
can customize the multiplier value, or by default BFD waits 3 times the minimum interval before
redirecting traffic away from the unresponsive neighbor.
This design sets the minimum interval to 100 milliseconds on all member links and uses the default
multiplier value (3).
If the minimum interval is set to 100, for example, BFD sends a hello packet every 100 milliseconds
and starts directing traffic to other member links in an aggregated Ethernet interface if the hello
packet does not receive a response in 300 milliseconds.
Set the minimum interval to a lower value if you want to ensure traffic is quickly redirected after a
link failure. Set the minimum interval to a higher value if you want to minimize the chance that BFD
accidentally misidentifies an active link as a down link.
The output below shows how to configure the minimum interval to 100 milliseconds on aggregated
Ethernet interface 1.
Spine and Leaf Device:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 100
2. Configure the IP address used by MicroBFD over the aggregated Ethernet bundle. For bridged AE
interfaces, this address should be the IP address used by MicroBFD over the aggregated Ethernet
bundle.
The output below show how to assign the loopback IP address to ae1 on the leaf device.
Spine and Leaf Device:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options bfd-liveness-detection local-address 192.168.1.10
3. Specify the loopback IP address of the neighbor device on the other end of the aggregated Ethernet
interface.
The output below is from aggregated Ethernet interface 1 on leaf device 1, which is used to connect
to spine device 1. Spine device 1 uses 192.168.0.1 as it’s loopback IP address.

96
Spine and Leaf Device:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options bfd-liveness-detection neighbor 192.168.0.1
4. Specify the minimum number of links that have to remain up before all links in the aggregated
Ethernet interface stop sending and receiving traffic.
Setting the minimum links to 1 ensures the aggregated Ethernet bundle always transmits traffic
unless all links in the aggregated Ethernet interface are unable to forward or receive traffic. Consider
setting the minimum links value to a higher number if you feel performance could be significantly
degraded in your network if a number of member links in your aggregated Ethernet interface stopped
forwarding traffic.
All devices in the design set the minimum links value to 1.
Spine and Leaf Device:
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
Repeat the above steps for each aggregated Ethernet interface in your topology to enable microBFD.
5. To verify BFD sessions after enabling microBFD, enter the show bfd session command:
Leaf 10 Example:
user@leaf10> show bfd session
Detect Transmit
Address State Interface Time Interval Multiplier
192.168.0.1 Up et-0/0/11 0.300 0.100 3
192.168.0.1 Up et-0/0/29 0.300 0.100 3
IP Fabric Underlay Network — Release History
Table 3 on page 97 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.

97
Table 3: IP Fabric Underlay Network Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train also support all features documented in this section except the following:
• MicroBFD, which is supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and QFX10016 switches
only.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section except MicroBFD.
18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train
support all features documented in this section except MicroBFD.
17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section. The following is an
exception:
• MicroBFD, which is supported on QFX10002-36Q/72Q, QFX10008, and QFX10016 switches
only.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Software as a Service
Understanding Independent Micro BFD Sessions for LAG
Configure IBGP for the Overlay
For a control-plane driven overlay, there must be a signalling path between the VXLAN virtual tunnel
endpoint (VTEP) devices. In this reference design with an IPv4 Fabric underlay, all overlay types use
IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP) to maintain the signalling path between the VTEPs within an
autonomous system. The spine devices act as a route reflector cluster, and the leaf devices are route
reflector clients, as shown in Figure 32 on page 98.

98
Figure 32: IBGP Route Reflector Cluster
To configure an EVPN-VXLAN data center fabric architecture with an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric
Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead of this
procedure. In an IPv6 Fabric configuration, we use EBGP and IPv6 for underlay connectivity, as well as
EBGP and IPv6 for peering and EVPN signalling in the overlay. With an IPv6 Fabric, the VTEPs
encapsulate the VXLAN packets with an IPv6 outer header and tunnel the packets using IPv6. You can
use either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric in your data center architecture. You can’t mix IPv4 Fabric
and IPv6 Fabric elements in the same architecture.
To configure IBGP for the overlay peering in an IPv4 Fabric, perform the following:
1. Configure an AS number for overlay IBGP. All leaf and spine devices participating in the overlay use
the same AS number. In this example, the AS number is private AS 4210000001.
Spine and Leaf Devices:
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001
2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on each spine device to peer with every leaf device (Leaf 1
through Leaf 96). Also, form the route reflector cluster (cluster ID 192.168.0.10) and configure
equal cost multipath (ECMP) for BGP. The configuration included here belongs to Spine 1, as shown
in Figure 33 on page 99.

99
Figure 33: IBGP – Spine Device
TIP: By default, BGP selects only one best path when there are multiple, equal-cost
BGP paths to a destination. When you enable BGP multipath by including the
multipath statement at the [edit protocols bgp group group-name] hierarchy level, the
device installs all of the equal-cost BGP paths into the forwarding table. This feature
helps load balance the traffic across multiple paths.
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY local-address 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY cluster 192.168.0.10
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY multipath
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.1.1
...
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.1.96

100
3. Configure IBGP on the spine devices to peer with all the other spine devices acting as route
reflectors. This step completes the full mesh peering topology required to form a route reflector
cluster.
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH local-address 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH neighbor 192.168.0.4
4. Configure BFD on all BGP groups on the spine devices to enable rapid detection of failures and
reconvergence.
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 350
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 350
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY_RR_MESH bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
5. Configure IBGP with EVPN signaling from each leaf device (route reflector client) to each spine
device (route reflector cluster). The configuration included here belongs to Leaf 1, as shown in
Figure 34 on page 101.

101
Figure 34: IBGP – Leaf Device
Leaf 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY local-address 192.168.1.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY neighbor 192.168.0.4
6. Configure BFD on the leaf devices to enable rapid detection of failures and reconvergence.
NOTE: QFX5100 switches only support BFD liveness detection minimum intervals
of 1 second or longer. The configuration here has a minimum interval of 350 ms,
which is supported on devices other than QFX5100 switches.

102
Leaf 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 350
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
7. Verify that IBGP is functional on the spine devices.
user@spine-1> show bgp summary
Groups: 5 Peers: 221 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
inet.0
9711 182 0 0 0 0
inet6.0
0 0 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
31520 31520 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
192.168.0.2 421000001 28724 31106 0 0 22:40:41 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 8227/8227/8227/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 54/54/54/0...
192.168.1.96 421000001 4831 73047 0 0 22:43:41 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 1549/1549/1549/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 11/11/11/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 1471/1471/1471/0
---(more)---
8. Verify that BFD is operational on the spine devices.
user@spine-1> show bfd session
Detect Transmit
Address State Interface Time Interval Multiplier
192.168.0.2 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.0.3 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.0.4 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.1.1 Up 1.050 0.350 3
...
192.168.1.96 Up 1.050 0.350 3

103
9. Verify that IBGP is operational on the leaf devices.
user@leaf-1> show bgp summary
Groups: 2 Peers: 8 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
inet.0
834 233 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
3193 833 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
## IBGP Overlay
192.168.0.1 4210000001 9371 596 0 2 4:17:03 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 706/829/829/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 701/824/824/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 5/5/5/0
192.168.0.2 4210000001 10175 579 0 2 4:16:35 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 43/834/834/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 43/829/829/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/5/5/0
192.168.0.3 4210000001 10463 621 0 2 4:34:55 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 43/834/834/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 43/829/829/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/5/5/0
192.168.0.4 4210000001 8250 463 0 1 3:12:47 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 41/696/696/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 41/691/691/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/5/5/0
10. Verify that BFD is operational on the leaf devices.
user@leaf-10> show bfd session
Detect Transmit
Address State Interface Time Interval Multiplier
192.168.0.1 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.0.2 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.0.3 Up 1.050 0.350 3
192.168.0.4 Up 1.050 0.350 3

104
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Understanding BGP Route Reflectors
BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding (DPF) with
EVPN-VXLAN Implementation
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
BGP deterministic path forwarding (DPF) with Overview | 104
EVPN-VXLAN enables the segmentation of a
DPF Configuration Guidelines and
physical network into multiple logical fabrics using
Caveats | 105
color-based routing. This enables precise traffic flow
control and segregation, while integrating automatic Topology Requirements | 106
failover mechanisms for resilience. Topology | 107
Spine Configuration and Verification | 109
Leaf Configuration and Verification | 110
Overview
You can use BGP deterministic path forwarding (DPF) to segment a physical network into multiple
logical fabrics by assigning fabric colors to BGP sessions. This document provides example spine and leaf
device configurations for an IP fabric using BGP DPF with EVPN-VXLAN. It includes device
configuration and verification steps as well as general BGP DPF configuration guidance.
BGP-DPF implements color-based routing, which enables you to advertise routes across different
colored paths. By configuring fabric colors at the global, group, or neighbor levels you can control which
routes are advertised over specific paths. Integrating DPF with EVPN-VXLAN enables more precise
control of traffic flows by utilizing colored routes as underlays. This enables traffic segregation at the
MAC-VRF level, ensuring that virtualized environments can benefit from isolated and efficient traffic
flows. This control over path selection ensures that the network can meet diverse requirements, such as
latency sensitivity and redundancy. In addition to assigning colors for the primary paths, you can set up
backup paths for resilience, which ensures seamless failover if the primary path becomes unavailable.

105
You can use the protocols bgp fabric-advertise route destination statement to advertise colored IPv4 and
IPv6 routes. This configuration advertises these routes automatically based on the color configurations
without needing an export policy. If a route is configured with the color option, the route is advertised
over the EBGP neighbors of the same color and the color community is added to the route. Routes with
no color configured are advertised to all EBGP peers.
Configuring a backup color using the backup-color option advertises the route over the EBGP neighbors of
the backup color. It also adds the backup color community to the route advertised over the backup
fabric. When the backup-color option is configured, an accumulated IGP (AIGP) metric of 0 is added to the
route advertised over the primary colored fabric to ensure the primary colored fabric is preferred by
upstream routers.
You can configure a colored tunnel endpoint for an EVPN MAC-VRF with the routing-instances name vtep-
source-interface inet colored-tunnel-address destination statement. This sets the EVPN routes with the
colored-tunnel-address as the protocol next hop (PNH). BGP then advertises these EVPN routes with the
specified PNH. When the ingress PE receives the EVPN route, it uses the PNH to resolve the route over
the desired colored tunnel endpoint. Therefore different colored tunnel addresses must be configured
for MAC-VRFs of different colored fabrics. They cannot share the same virtual tunnel endpoint (VTEP)
address.
You can configure a tenant MAC-VRF or an EVPN Type 5 (RT-5) instance without any colored fabric
configurations. In these instances, the routes have no color configuration and are advertised to all EBGP
peers. These instances can use all spine devices and dynamic load balancing (DLB) to optimize network
performance.
DPF Configuration Guidelines and Caveats
When configuring DPF, keep these guidelines and caveats in mind:
• You configure the colors for BGP neighbors using BGP extended communities. These configurations
must be consistent across the entire physical fabric. For example, if the BGP extended community
color:0:1 represents "Blue" on one router, it must represent "Blue" on all other routers in the same
physical fabric.
• When you configure fabric-advertise statements and an export policy on the same router, the export
policy should not modify the color communities that the fabric-advertise statements specify. Also, the
export policy should not originate the AIGP metric for a fabric-advertise route because color-based
routing uses the AIGP metric to indicate the primary color when primary and backup colors are
configured.
• BGP advertises all colored routes over uncolored BGP neighbors. When you want to restrict certain
routes to specific colors, do not mix uncolored fabrics and colored fabrics.

106
• BGP advertises uncolored routes across all colored fabrics. If you want to allow only matching
colored routes over a specific colored fabric, you should avoid using uncolored routes, with the
exception of those that solely carry light control traffic.
• A colored BGP receiver will accept uncolored routes and routes matching its color, but routes with a
different color are marked as hidden.
• When deploying EVPN VXLAN with DPF, the overlay multihop EBGP peers between leaf devices
remain uncolored. Configure these BGP peers with only family evpn signaling. Do not enable family
inet or family inet6 on these peers because that configuration allows the advertisement of colored
routes over uncolored multihop EBGP sessions. Aside from EVPN VXLAN overlay BGP sessions, do
not configure any additional uncolored multihop EBGP or IBGP peers with colored fabrics.
Otherwise, you risk advertising colored routes over these uncolored multihop EBGP or IBGP peers.
• Egress Link Protection (ELP) and Assisted Replication features are not supported when BGP DPF is
used with EVPN-VXLAN.
The following sections explain how to configure spine and leaf devices for a DPF colored fabric. The
configurations in this example are focused on configuring BGP DPF. The configuration examples
included here do not provide all the configurations necessary to implement an IP fabric underlay. These
configurations implement color-based BGP communities and fabric color assignments to enable color-
based traffic engineering and service-level path selection. This enables different traffic types to be
routed through designated network paths based on their color assignments.
For information about how to configure IP fabric underlays see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and
Implementation" on page 81.
Topology Requirements
This example uses the following hardware and software components:
• A QFX5120 that functions as the super spine and route reflector.
• Two QFX5120s, three QFX5130s and a QFX5700 that function as spine devices.
• Three QFX5120s and a QFX5130 that functions as leaf devices.
• All devices are running Junos OS 25.4R1.
• Please refer to BGP support for deterministic path forwarding (DPF) in a CLOS network for a
complete list of the products that support this feature.

107
Topology
In this example, we have a route reflector connected to six spine devices each configured with one of
three different fabric colors. The user can choose to load balance the traffic between leaf devices by
using different colored spines. The leaf devices are connected to several server devices as multihomed
peers.
This example depicts three colored fabrics, (Blue, Red, and Green), and an uncolored fabric connected to
servers S4 and S8. The configuration examples that follow do not include the configurations for the
uncolored fabric. Because uncolored routes are advertised to all EBGP peers, the instances on servers
S4 and S8 can use all the spines and DLB load balancing.
Figure 35: Colored Fabric Topology
Topology overview:
• The super spine is connected to six colored spine devices.
• Each spine is configured with a color (Blue/Red/Green) to divide the physical fabric into multiple
logical fabrics.

108
• Spine 1, Spine 2, and Spine 3 are connected to Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 via the colored BGP underlay.
• Spine 4, Spine 5, and Spine 6 are connected to Leaf 3 and Leaf 4 via the colored BGP underlay.
• Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 are multihomed peers connected to servers S1 through S4.
• Leaf 3 and Leaf 4 are multihomed peers connected to servers S5 through S8.
In addition to the configurations shown in Figure 35 on page 107 the leaf devices each have multiple
loopback interfaces configured for use with VTEP interfaces.
Table 4: Leaf Device Loopback Interfaces
Leaf Device Loopback Address Purpose
Leaf 1 192.168.0.1 Primary
192.168.4.1 ep-type-2 MAC-VRF
192.168.10.1 ep-type-5 L3 VRF
Leaf 2 192.168.0.2 Primary
192.168.4.2 ep-type-2 MAC-VRF
192.168.10.2 ep-type-5 L3 VRF
Leaf 3 192.168.0.5 Primary
192.168.4.5 ep-type-2 MAC-VRF
192.168.10.5 ep-type-5 L3 VRF
Leaf 4 192.168.0.6 Primary
192.168.4.6 ep-type-2 MAC-VRF
192.168.10.6 ep-type-5 L3 VRF

109
Spine Configuration and Verification
This section provides guidance for configuring and verifying the spine devices for DPF with EVPN-
VXLAN to enable color-based routing.
Spine Configuration
Configure the spine devices to implement color-based BGP communities and fabric color assignments.
Configure the BGP extended community using set policy-options community color-name members color:0:<tag>
statement. Then assign the fabric-color at the global, group, or neighbor level to implement the fabric.
In our examples here we define the colors "Blue", "Red", and "Green" for Spine 1, Spine 2, and Spine 3
respectively, and then assigned the fabric colors at the BGP neighbor level. The configurations for the
remaining spine devices are similar.
Spine 1
set policy-options community Blue members color:0:1
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.7.0 fabric-color Blue
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.0 fabric-color Blue
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.4.0 fabric-color Blue
Spine 2
set policy-options community Red members color:0:2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.8.0 fabric-color Red
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.2.0 fabric-color Red
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.5.0 fabric-color Red
Spine 3
set policy-options community Green members color:0:3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.9.0 fabric-color Green
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.0 fabric-color Green
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.6.0 fabric-color Green

110
Spine Verification
Use the show bgp summary command with the fabric-color color-name option to display information related to
BGP neighbors with the specified fabric-color only.
This example shows the outputs for Spine 1. The outputs for the remaining spine devices are similar.
user@spine1> show bgp summary fabric-color Blue
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 2 Peers: 6 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.evpn.0
33594 31674 0 0 0 0
inet.0
36 36 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.1.0 4200000011 741 748 0 0 5:37:03 Establ
inet.0: 8/8/8/0
172.16.4.0 4200000012 741 748 0 0 5:37:10 Establ
inet.0: 8/8/8/0
172.16.7.0 4200000021 742 746 0 0 5:38:19 Establ
inet.0: 20/20/20/0
Leaf Configuration and Verification
This section provides guidance for configuring and verifying the leaf devices for DPF with EVPN-VXLAN
to enable color-based routing and automatic failover between colored paths. We are only including the
Leaf 1 configurations in this example for brevity. The configurations on Leaf 2, Leaf 3, and Leaf 4 are
similar.
Leaf Configurations
These examples include configuring the following:
• Color community definitions
• Loopback addresses for colored tunnel endpoints

111
• Fabric colors for BGP neighbors
• Colored tunnel endpoint advertisements with primary and backup paths
• Service-specific VRF instances for Layer 2 and Layer 3 EVPN services
Configure the BGP extended community using the set policy-options community color-name members
color:0:<tag> statement.
We have defined the colors "Blue", "Red", and "Green" because Leaf 1 has connections to all three color
fabrics.
set policy-options community Blue members color:0:1
set policy-options community Red members color:0:2
set policy-options community Green members color:0:3
Configure the loopback interface IP addresses. Each VRF in this example uses a different IP address for
their individual colored tunnel endpoint.
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.0.1/32 primary
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.0.1/32 preferred
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.4.1/32
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.10.1/32
Configure the fabric-color statement at the neighbor level to assign the fabric colors to the neighbors of
the same color. This example creates three distinct colored paths through the underlay fabric, Blue, Red,
and Green.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.1 fabric-color Blue
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.2.1 fabric-color Red
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.1 fabric-color Green
Configure fabric route advertisements using the fabric-advertise statement with primary and backup
color assignments. Configuring a backup-color enables automatic failover if the primary path becomes
unavailable. Configuring a backup-color also triggers adding an AIGP metric of 0 to the route advertised
over the primary colored fabric.
set protocols bgp fabric-advertise route 192.168.4.1/32 color Red
set protocols bgp fabric-advertise route 192.168.4.1/32 backup-color Blue

112
set protocols bgp fabric-advertise route 192.168.10.1/32 color Red
set protocols bgp fabric-advertise route 192.168.10.1/32 backup-color Green
Configure a layer 3 VRF instance for EVPN Type-2 services with integrated routing and bridging. This
example creates a VRF instance for Type-2 EVPN services and associates IRB interfaces 478-481 for
Layer 3 gateway functionality. It also includes a loopback logical interface lo0.301 for VRF specific
addressing and sets the route distinguisher 192.168.0.1:301 for route uniqueness.
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 interface irb.478
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 interface irb.479
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 interface irb.480
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 interface irb.481
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 interface lo0.301
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:301
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 vrf-target target:100:301
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type2 vrf-table-label
Configure a layer 3 VRF instance for EVPN Type-5 ip-prefix-routes. This example includes the colored-
tunnel-address statement to associate the VRF with the colored tunnel endpoint 192.168.10.1.
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 routing-options rib VRF-ep-type5.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 302060
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export ExportHostRoutes
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 protocols evpn colored-tunnel-address inet 192.168.10.1
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 interface lo0.2060
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 interface irb.2237
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 interface irb.2238
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 interface irb.2239
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 interface irb.2240
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:2060
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 vrf-target import target:300:2060
set routing-instances VRF-ep-type5 vrf-target export target:200:2060
Associate a MAC-VRF routing instance with a colored tunnel endpoint by adding the colored-tunnel-
address statement to the configuration. In this example, adding this statement to an existing MAC VRF

113
associates it with the colored tunnel endpoint 192.168.4.1, enabling Layer 2 EVPN services to utilize the
Red colored path with Blue backup.
set routing-instances MACVRF-ep-type2 vtep-source-interface inet colored-tunnel-address
192.168.4.1
Leaf Verification
You can verify the configuration using the various show commands.
Use the show bgp summary fabric-color color-name command to display neighbors with the specified fabric
color only. This example shows the neighbor 172.16.1.1 has an established session over the fabric-color
Blue.
user@leaf1> show bgp summary fabric-color Blue
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 5 Peers: 10 Down peers: 4
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.evpn.0
57610 25196 0 0 0 0
inet.0
84 54 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.1.1 4200000001 749 739 0 0 5:36:42 Establ
inet.0: 14/29/29/0
The show bgp neighbor fabric-color color-name command displays BGP neighbors with the specified fabric
color only. In this example you can see the Fabric-color field displays the BGP color community name
Blue and value assigned to the BGP color community.
user@leaf1> show bgp neighbor fabric-color Blue
Peer: 172.16.1.1+179 AS 4200000001 Local: 172.16.1.0+54513 AS 4200000011
Group: underlay-bgp Routing-Instance: master
Forwarding routing-instance: master
Type: External State: Established Flags: <Sync>

114
…
Fabric-color: Blue [color:0:1 ]
The show bgp fabric-advertise command shows the advertised routes with the primary and backup colors
assigned to them.
user@leaf1> show bgp fabric-advertise
Route Color Backup color
192.168.0.1/32 - -
192.168.4.1/32 Red, color:0:2 Blue, color:0:1
192.168.10.1/32 Red, color:0:2 Green, color:0:3
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
BGP Deterministic Path Forwarding in a CLOS Network
IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design
and Implementation with EBGP
IN THIS SECTION
Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay | 117
Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering | 120
Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity | 122
Most use cases in this guide are based on an IP Fabric that uses IPv4 and EBGP for underlay
connectivity with IBGP overlay peering. On supporting platforms, starting in Junos OS Release 21.2R2-
S1 and 21.4R1, you can alternatively use an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure. With an IPv6 Fabric, the VXLAN
virtual tunnel endpoints (VTEPs) encapsulate the VXLAN header with an IPv6 outer header and tunnel
the packets using IPv6. The workload packets with the payload can use either IPv4 or IPv6. See Figure
36 on page 115.

115
Figure 36: IPv6 Fabric VXLAN Packet Encapsulation
An IPv6 Fabric uses IPv6 addressing, IPv6 and EBGP for underlay connectivity, and IPv6 and EBGP for
overlay peering. You can’t mix IPv4 and IPv6 underlays and overlay peering in the same fabric.
This section describes how to configure the IPv6 Fabric design. In this environment, you can take
advantage of the expanded addressing capabilities and efficient packet processing that the IPv6 protocol
offers.
We have qualified this IPv6 Fabric in our reference architectures with:
• The following routing and bridging overlay designs:
• Bridged overlay
• Edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay
• EVPN instances configured using MAC-VRF routing instances only.
Figure 37 on page 116 shows a high-level representative view of the spine and leaf devices in an IPv6
Fabric.

116
Figure 37: Basic Spine and Leaf Fabric with an IPv6 Fabric
The topology can be the same or similar to the supported topologies with an IPv4 Fabric.
The main differences in how you configure an IPv6 Fabric instead of an IPv4 Fabric include:
• You configure IPv6 interfaces to interconnect the devices.
• You assign an IPv6 address to the loopback interface on the devices serving as VTEPs.
• In the EVPN routing instance, you set the VTEP source interface as the device’s loopback IPv6
address, rather than an IPv4 address.
• You configure the underlay EBGP peering between the IPv6 interface addresses interconnecting the
devices. You configure the overlay EBGP peering between the device IPv6 loopback addresses.
See "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page 51
for the initial hardened release in which a platform supports an IPv6 fabric design, based on the type of
overlay architecture and the role the device serves in the fabric. Look for the table rows that state the
device role “with IPv6 underlay”.
See EVPN-VXLAN with an IPv6 Underlay in the EVPN User Guide for an overview of EVPN-VXLAN
feature support and limitations with an IPv6 Fabric.
For an overview of the supported IP fabric underlay and overlay models and components used in our
reference architecture designs, see "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

117
Configure Interfaces and EBGP as the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric
Underlay
In this design (similar to the IPv4 Fabric in "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on
page 81), you interconnect the spine and leaf devices using aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two
member links. (You can alternatively use a single link, or more than two member links in an aggregated
Ethernet bundle, for each spine and leaf connection.)
This procedure shows how to configure the interfaces on the leaf side toward the spines, and enable
EBGP with IPv6 as the underlay routing protocol on the leaf device.
NOTE: Although this procedure doesn’t show the spine side configuration, you configure
the interconnecting interfaces and the EBGP underlay on the spine side in the same way
as you do on the leaf device.
Figure 38 on page 117 shows the interfaces on leaf device Leaf1 that you configure in this procedure.
Figure 38: Leaf1 Interfaces and IPv6 Addressing with EBGP for Spine and Leaf Connectivity
To configure aggregated Ethernet interfaces and EBGP in the underlay with IPv6 on Leaf1:
1. Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces permitted on the device.

118
We recommend setting this number to the exact number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on your
device, including aggregated Ethernet interfaces that are not for the spine to leaf device
connections here. In this scaled-down example, we set the count to 10. If you have more spine and
leaf devices or employ aggregated Ethernet interfaces for other purposes, set the appropriate
number for your network.
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 10
2. Create the aggregated Ethernet interfaces toward the spine devices, optionally assigning a
description to each interface.
set interfaces ae1 description “To Spine1”
set interfaces ae2 description “To Spine2”
3. Assign interfaces to each aggregated Ethernet interface.
In this case, we show creating aggregated Ethernet interfaces with two member links each. In this
step, you also specify the minimum number of links (one) that have to remain up before all links in
the aggregated Ethernet interface stop sending and receiving traffic.
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces et-0/0/28 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/29 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces et-0/0/30 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/31 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
4. Assign an IPv6 address to each aggregated Ethernet interface.
In this step, you also specify the interface MTU size. You set two MTU values for each aggregated
Ethernet interface, one for the physical interface and one for the IPv6 logical interface. We
configure a higher MTU on the physical interface to account for VXLAN encapsulation.
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet6 mtu 9000
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8::173:16:1:0/127
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet6 mtu 9000
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8::173:16:2:0/127
5. Enable fast LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.

119
You enable LACP with the fast periodic interval, which configures LACP to send a packet every
second.
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
6. Configure an IPv6 loopback address and a router ID on the device.
Although the underlay uses the IPv6 address family, for BGP handshaking to work in the overlay,
you must configure the router ID as an IPv4 address.
The router ID is often the device’s IPv4 loopback address, but is not required to match that address.
For simplicity in this example, we don’t assign an IPv4 loopback address, but to easily associate
device IPv6 addresses and router IDs, we assign IPv4 router IDs with similar address components.
In Figure 38 on page 117, the device IPv6 loopback address for Leaf1 is 2001:db8::192:168:1:1 and
the IPv4 router ID is 192.168.1.1.
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8::192:168:1:1/128 primary
set routing-options router-id 192.168.1.1
7. Enable EBGP (type external) with IPv6 as the underlay network routing protocol.
With EBGP, each device in the underlay fabric has a unique local 32-bit autonomous system (AS)
number (ASN). Figure 38 on page 117 shows the ASN values for each device in this configuration
example. The EBGP ASN for Leaf1 is 4200000011. Leaf1 connects to Spine1 (ASN 4200000001)
and Spine2 (ASN 4200000002) using the IPv6 addresses of the aggregated Ethernet interfaces
toward each spine device. The underlay routing configuration ensures that the devices can reliably
reach each other.
The only difference in this configuration from the IPv4 Fabric configuration in "IP Fabric Underlay
Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 is that you use IPv6 addressing instead of IPv4
addressing.
In this step, you also enable BGP multipath with the multiple AS option. By default, EBGP selects
one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table. When you enable BGP
multipath, the device installs all equal-cost paths to a given destination into the forwarding table.
The multiple-as option enables load balancing between EBGP neighbors in different autonomous
systems.
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp multipath multiple-as

120
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp neighbor 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp neighbor 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 peer-as 4200000002
8. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IPv6 address of the loopback interface to the
EBGP peer devices in the underlay.
In this example, because we configure only an IPv6 address on the loopback interface, this simple
policy correctly retrieves and advertises that address in the EBGP underlay.
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-ipv6-clos-export term loopback from interface
lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-ipv6-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-ipv6-bgp export underlay-ipv6-clos-export
9. (QFX Series Broadcom-based switches running Junos OS releases in the 21.2 release train only)
Enable the Broadcom VXLAN flexible flow feature on the device if needed.
QFX Series Broadcom-based switches require the flexible flow feature to support IPv6 VXLAN
tunneling. You don't need this step starting in Junos OS Release 21.4R1, where the default
configuration enables this option for you on platforms that require this feature. When you set this
option and commit the configuration, you must then reboot the device for the change to take
effect.
set forwarding-options vxlan-flexflow
10. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that
you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, make sure you set the host-profile unified forwarding profile
option to support EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay Peering
Use this procedure with an IPv6 Fabric EBGP underlay to configure the IPv6 overlay peering. Both the
underlay and overlay must use IPv6, so you can’t use the overlay configuration in "Configure IBGP for
the Overlay" on page 97 (which describes configuring overlay peering in an IPv4 Fabric).
Because the overlay peering in the IPv6 Fabric also uses EBGP as the routing protocol, the overlay
peering configuration is very similar to the underlay configuration in "Configure Interfaces and EBGP as
the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay" on page 117. The main difference is that in the

121
underlay, we specify the IPv6 addresses of the Layer 3 interfaces that connect to the EBGP neighbors
(in this example, the aggregated Ethernet interface addresses). In contrast, in the overlay, we use the
device IPv6 loopback addresses to specify the EBGP neighbors. Refer again to Figure 38 on page 117
for the device addresses and ASN values in this example.
Another difference in the overlay configuration here is that we configure EVPN signaling.
To configure EBGP overlay peering with IPv6 on Leaf1 to Spine1 and Spine2:
1. Enable IPv6 EBGP peering with EVPN signalling between the leaf and spine devices. Specify the
device’s IPv6 loopback address as the local-address in the overlay BGP group configuration.
In this step, similar to the underlay EBGP configuration, you also:
• Specify the device’s local ASN.
• Enable BGP multipath with the multiple AS option to install all equal-cost paths to a destination
into the forwarding table, and enable load balancing between EBGP neighbors with different
ASNs.
In the overlay BGP group, when you configure the neighbor devices, you specify the IPv6 loopback
addresses of the peer neighbor devices. (The underlay BGP group configuration uses the
interconnecting aggregated Ethernet interface IPv6 address for neighbor peering.)
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp local-address 2001:db8::192:168:1:1
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp neighbor 2001:db8::192:168:0:1 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp neighbor 2001:db8::192:168:0:2 peer-as 4200000002
2. Set the multihop option to enable EBGP peering in the overlay using device loopback addresses.
When we use EBGP in the overlay, the EBGP peering happens between the device IPv6 loopback
addresses. However, EBGP was designed to establish peering between directly-connected IP or IPv6
interface addresses. As a result, EBGP peering between device loopback addresses requires an extra
hop for an EBGP control packet to reach its destination. The multihop option enables the device to
establish the EBGP sessions in the overlay under these conditions.
Also include the no-nexthop-change option with the multihop statement so that intermediate EBGP
overlay peers don’t change the BGP next-hop attribute from the originating value across multiple
hops.
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp multihop no-nexthop-change

122
3. (Recommended in the overlay) Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) in the overlay to
help detect BGP neighbor failures.
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ipv6-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
Verify EBGP IPv6 Underlay and Overlay Device Connectivity
After you’ve committed the underlay and overlay configurations in "Configure Interfaces and EBGP as
the Routing Protocol in the IPv6 Fabric Underlay" on page 117 and "Configure EBGP for IPv6 Overlay
Peering" on page 120, issue the following commands:
1. Enter the show bgp summary command on Leaf1 to confirm EBGP connectivity toward the spine
devices.
The example output shows the following:
• The established underlay connectivity with Spine1 and Spine 2—refer to the Peer column showing
aggregated Ethernet interface addresses 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 and 2001:db8::173:16:2:1,
respectively.
• The established overlay peering toward Spine1 and Spine2—refer to the Peer column showing
device loopback addresses 2001:db8::192:168:0:1 and 2001:db8::192:168:0:2, respectively.
user@leaf1> show bgp summary
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 2 Peers: 4 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.evpn.0
41024 20512 0 0 0 0
inet6.0
18 16 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|
#Active/Received/Accepted/Damped...
2001:db8::192:168:0:1 4200000001 858480 621472 0 1 3w5d 22:44:29 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 100/204/204/0
MAC-VRF-1.evpn.0: 50/100/100/0

123
default-switch.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/4/4/0
2001:db8::192:168:0:2 4200000002 917586 551727 0 1 3w5d 22:44:29 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 104/204/204/0
MAC-VRF-1: 50/100/100/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 4/4/4/0
2001:db8::173:16:1:1 4200000001 84449 85373 0 1 3w5d 22:44:30
inet6.0: 8/9/9/0
2001:db8::173:16:2:1 4200000002 84451 85396 0 1 3w5d 22:44:28
inet6.0: 8/9/9/0
2. Enter the show bfd session command on Leaf1 to verify the BFD session is up between Leaf1 and
the two spine devices (loopback IPv6 addresses 2001:db8::192:168:0:1 and 2001:db8::192:168:0:2).
user@leaf1> show bfd session
Detect Transmit
Address State Interface Time Interval Multiplier
2001:db8::192:168:0:1 Up 3.000 1.000 3
2001:db8::192:168:0:2 Up 3.000 1.000 3
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation | 81
Configure IBGP for the Overlay | 97
BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-
VXLAN Data Center
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
This guide demonstrates how to deploy and verify Overview | 124
BGP unnumbered peerings (also called BGP
autodiscovery or BGP auto-peering). This feature

124
allows BGP to auto-discover and to create peer
neighbor sessions using the link-local IPv6 addresses Configure BGP Unnumbered EVPN
of directly connected neighbors. Fabric | 125
Topology | 126
Step-by-Step Configuration | 127
Results | 129
Quick Configurations | 131
Validation | 134
Overview
Today many enterprises and hyper-scale data centers use BGP as the underlay routing protocol. Unlike
traditional IGPs such as OSPF and IS-IS, BGP typically requires that you explicitly configure peering,
autonomous system (AS) numbers, and routing policies to control route exchanges.
Many operators are still relatively inexperienced with IPv6. Using BGP unnumbered peering, which
dynamically discovers IPv6 neighbors, reduces the burden of manually configuring an IPv6 underlay in
an EVPN-VXLAN data center (DC) fabric. Junos OS builds on the baseline IPv6 functionality by
supporting BGP group configuration. BGP group configuration provides support for dynamic peering
parameters (such as allowed remote AS numbers) used to support an unnumbered IPv6 fabric.
You can configure an EVPN-VXLAN DC fabric manually, or by using the BGP unnumbered peering
feature. This use case describes the complexity of manually configuring the fabric and why using the
BGP unnumbered peering feature provides a much easier solution.
Consider a simple two-tier data center. This modest size fabric consists of four spine devices and 32 leaf
devices. Each spine device has 32 links which attach to the leaf devices and each leaf has two fabric
links, one for each spine device.
In this manual configuration, you first need to need to assign the IP addresses for the network. For this
fabric you'll need to configure 4*32=128 IPv6 IP addresses. Each network requires two host address
assignments.
Next, you configure the BGP peers and their associated AS numbers. For each end of every fabric link,
you need one BGP peering session. In our example fabric, this calculation equates to a total of
4*32*2=256 BGP peer definitions, each of which requires a unique peering IP and remote AS number.
Manually defining 256 BGP peerings can be cumbersome and is also prone to error. In a complex fabric,
a simple misconfiguration can be difficult to isolate. Let's say that the fabric supports 128 leaf devices.
You must now configure 4*128=512 IP IPv6 networks. It is clear from the math that the complexity of
manually provisioning a large fabric quickly becomes a burden. Also, for IPv4 fabrics, an often

125
overlooked factor is the large number of IPv4 addresses the underlay consumes. In many networks, IPv4
addressing space is at a premium.
In contrast, BGP unnumbered peering requires no routable IP network assignments on underlay links. All
BGP peering in the underlay uses only link-local IP addresses. Using link-local IP addresses means less
configuration, less complexity, smaller routing tables, and IP address preservation.
Configure BGP Unnumbered EVPN Fabric
When configuring BGP unnumbered peering, you only need a minimum number of configuration
statements. These configuration statements are used to quickly bootstrap an IPv6 based underlay. This
underlay supports the EVPN-VXLAN overlay. Although the underlay uses native IPv6, it also supports
IPv4 routes with IPv6 next-hops (RFC5549) . In other words, the underlay supports both IPv4 and IPv6
workloads and their related virtual networks in the EVPN-VXLAN overlay. A complete discussion of IPv6
stateless auto-configuration is beyond the scope of this document.
The following list highlights the key features of BGP unnumbered peering:
• Automatically configures stateless link-local IPv6 addresses on all IPv6 enabled interfaces.
• Supports a list of allowed AS numbers to simplify peering to remote fabric devices.
• Uses IPv6 Router Advertisements (RAs) that provides dynamic discovery of directly attached
neighbors.
• Uses IPv6 neighbor discovery to resolve the neighbor's link-local IP to the corresponding MAC
address to facilitate link level communications.
• The local end uses the discovered peer link-local and MAC addresses to send a BGP open message to
directly attached neighbors. This open message contains the local peer's AS number. The remote
peer matches this against its list of allowed AS numbers to decide if the session is allowed. Likewise,
the local peer matches on the remote peer's AS number, as returned in the remote peer's open
message.
• Provides you with a simple BGP policy that advertises all directly connected networks (at a minimum,
the loopback address of each fabric device must be advertised).
• Uses the default EBGP policy to re-advertise the routes learned from other fabric devices.
• Uses the BGP AS path length to prevent loops and to provide optimum route selection for ECMP
load balancing.
• Simplifies adding an EVPN-VXLAN overlay since the underlay provides loopback reachability.

126
NOTE: BGP unnumbered peering only supports EBGP. Multihop EBGP and IBGP are not
supported.
Topology
The following diagram shows a simple two spine and two leaf topology.
• The fabric underlay is pure IPv6, including the device loopbacks.
• The attached servers are IPv4-based, which demonstrates support for IPv4 over IPv6 (see RFC
5549). IPv6 workloads are also supported in the overlay. Assume these servers are bare-metal
servers (BMS), and are preconfigured with the IP addressing that is shown. The VLAN membership is
used to map these workloads into overlay virtual networks that are isolated by VXLAN
encapsulation. The access interfaces are untagged for this example.
• You expect to have routed connectivity between the server workloads when you add an overlay. The
overlay can be either CRB or ERB. The BGP unnumbered underlay supports either type of overlay.

127
Step-by-Step Configuration
This section provides step-by-step instructions on how to configure BGP unnumbered peering. The
configuration is similar on all the fabric devices, so the configuration for the Leaf 1 device only is shown
here. Additional device configurations are shown later in this example.
Step-by-Step: Leaf 1
1. Enable the inet6 family on all fabric interfaces. These fabric interfaces attach Leaf 1 to the spine
devices. The inet6 family provides support for IPv6 stateless auto-configuration and neighbor
discovery. To support IPv4 workloads you must also add the inet family.
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet
2. Create the loopback interface lo0 and configure the IPv6 address. The loopback address is used to
support BGP peering when you add the EVPN-VXLAN overlay.
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8:100::3/128
3. Configure a policy that specifies the list of BGP AS numbers you want to allow for dynamic BGP
peering.
set policy-options as-list a-list members [65000-65100]
4. Configure a per-packet load balancing policy. A load balancing policy allows multiple equal-cost next-
hops to be installed in the forwarding table, which provides rapid fail-over to alternative equal-cost
fabric hops in the event of a link failure.
set policy-options policy-statement load-balancing-policy then load-balance per-packet
5. Apply the per-packet load balancing policy to the forwarding table.
set routing-options forwarding-table export load-balancing-policy

128
6. Configure a policy to advertise direct routes. Because link-local subnets are not exported, in this
example, this policy advertises only the loopback address. You'll use this same loopback address later
when you configure BGP peering in the overlay.
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS then accept
7. Configure the router ID (RID). Because this example is for a native IPv6 fabric, you must ensure the
configuration includes an IPv4 formatted router ID. In most cases, the RID is automatically derived
from the loopback address, but in this example, the loopback is IPv6 only.
set routing-options router-id 10.0.0.4
8. Configure a router advertisement (RA) for each fabric interface. When the RA is enabled, the
interface periodically sends RA messages. RA messages are used to discover the remote neighbor's
link-local IP, which in turn kicks off neighbor discovery and the rest of the dynamic peering process.
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/1
9. Configure a BGP group to support unnumbered peering. We apply a policy to this group that exports
direct routes. You must include all fabric interfaces in this group and you must enable the interfaces
with peer-auto-discovery under the [protocols bgp group <group-name> dynamic-neighbor <neighbor-group-name>]
hierarchy. This group is linked to the policy that defines the AS numbers that are allowed for dynamic
peering.
You enable load balancing over multiple paths and multiple AS numbers. Remember that in this
fabric, each node uses a unique AS number. Multipath load balancing (ECMP) to multiple AS numbers
enables fast fail-over by allowing the RIB to install multiple next hops that point to these different AS
numbers. Adding support for extended IPv4 nexthops allows IPv4 route exchange over the IPv6 BGP
sessions.
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet6 unicast
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet unicast extended-nexthop
set protocols bgp group auto-disc export DIRECT-RTS
set protocols bgp group auto-disc local-as 65003
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery family inet6
ipv6-nd

129
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface
xe-0/0/0
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface
xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc peer-as-list a-list
set protocols bgp group auto-disc multipath multiple-as
Results
Recall that all fabric devices have similar configurations. For brevity, only the configuration delta for Leaf
1 is shown.
user@leaf-1> show configuration
system {
host-name leaf1;
}
interfaces {
xe-0/0/0 {
unit 0 {
family inet;
family inet6;
}
}
xe-0/0/1 {
unit 0 {
family inet;
family inet6;
}
}
lo0 {
unit 0 {
family inet6 {
address 2001:db8:100::3/128;
}
}
}
}
policy-options {
policy-statement DIRECT-RTS {

130
from protocol direct;
then accept;
}
policy-statement load-balancing-policy {
then load-ballance per-packet;
}
as-list a-list members 65000-65100;
}
routing-options {
router-id 10.0.0.3;
forwarding-table {
export load-balancing-policy;
}
}
protocols {
router-advertisement {
interface xe-0/0/0.0;
interface xe-0/0/1.0;
}
bgp {
group auto-disc {
family inet6 {
unicast;
}
family inet {
unicast {
extended-nexthop;
}
}
export DIRECT-RTS;
local-as 65003;
multipath;
dynamic-neighbor FABRIC {
peer-auto-discovery {
family inet6 {
ipv6-nd;
}
interface xe-0/0/0.0;
interface xe-0/0/1.0;
}
}
peer-as-list a-list;
}

131
}
}
Quick Configurations
To get you up and running quickly, we've provided you with quick configurations for each node in the
topology. Copy and edit the following commands as needed for the specifics of your environment (you
usually would not use the commands exactly as shown here). Paste the modified commands into the
related fabric device's terminal window. You must be in configuration mode at the [edit] hierarchy:
The quick configuration for Leaf 1:
set system host-name leaf1
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8:100::3/128
set policy-options as-list a-list members [65000-65100]
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS then accept
set policy-options policy-statement load-balancing-policy then load-balance per-packet
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet6 unicast
set protocols bgp group auto-disc export DIRECT-RTS
set protocols bgp group auto-disc local-as 65003
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery family inet6 ipv6-
nd
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc peer-as-list a-list
set protocols bgp group auto-disc multipath multiple-as
set routing-options forwarding-table export load-balancing-policy
set routing-options router-id 10.0.0.3

132
The quick configuration for Leaf 2:
set system host-name leaf2
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8:100::4/128
set policy-options as-list a-list members [65000-65100]
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS then accept
set policy-options policy-statement load-balancing-policy then load-balance per-packet
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet6 unicast
set protocols bgp group auto-disc export DIRECT-RTS
set protocols bgp group auto-disc local-as 65004
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery family inet6 ipv6-
nd
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc peer-as-list a-list
set protocols bgp group auto-disc multipath multiple-as
set routing-options forwarding-table export load-balancing-policy
set routing-options router-id 10.0.0.4
The quick configuration for Spine 1:
set system host-name spine1
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8:100::1/128
set policy-options as-list a-list members [65000-65100]
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS then accept

133
set policy-options policy-statement load-balancing-policy then load-balance per-packet
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet6 unicast
set protocols bgp group auto-disc export DIRECT-RTS
set protocols bgp group auto-disc local-as 65001
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery family inet6 ipv6-
nd
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc peer-as-list a-list
set protocols bgp group auto-disc multipath multiple-as
set routing-options forwarding-table export load-balancing-policy
set routing-options router-id 10.0.0.1
The quick configuration for Spine 2:
set system host-name spine2
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet
set interfaces xe-0/0/0 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 unit 0 family inet6
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet6 address 2001:db8:100::2/128
set policy-options as-list a-list members [65000-65100]
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-RTS then accept
set policy-options policy-statement load-balancing-policy then load-balance per-packet
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols router-advertisement interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc family inet6 unicast
set protocols bgp group auto-disc export DIRECT-RTS
set protocols bgp group auto-disc local-as 65002
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery family inet6 ipv6-
nd
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/0
set protocols bgp group auto-disc dynamic-neighbor FABRIC peer-auto-discovery interface xe-0/0/1
set protocols bgp group auto-disc peer-as-list a-list
set protocols bgp group auto-disc multipath multiple-as

134
set routing-options forwarding-table export load-balancing-policy
set routing-options router-id 10.0.0.2
Be sure to commit the configuration changes on all devices.
Validation
Use these commands and sample outputs to confirm the proper operation of your unnumbered
underlay. The configuration and operation of all nodes are similar. Below we only show commands and
output for Leaf 1. The same commands apply to all nodes, and similar output is expected for all devices.
Overall, the main verification task is to confirm all nodes have expected BGP sessions established using
link-local addresses, and that the fabric devices are properly exchanging loopback routes. We take a
structured bottom-up approach that confirms each aspect needed to successfully establish BGP
sessions.
Confirm fabric interfaces are up and operational.
user@leaf1> show interfaces xe-0/0/0Physical interface: xe-0/0/0, Enabled, Physical link is Up
Interface index: 650, SNMP ifIndex: 516
Link-level type: Ethernet, MTU: 1514, LAN-PHY mode, Speed: 10Gbps, Duplex: Full-Duplex, BPDU
Error: None,
Loop Detect PDU Error: None, Ethernet-Switching Error: None, MAC-REWRITE Error: None,
Loopback: Disabled,
Source filtering: Disabled, Flow control: Disabled, Media type: Fiber
Device flags : Present Running
Interface flags: SNMP-Traps Internal: 0x4000
Link flags : None
CoS queues : 8 supported, 8 maximum usable queues
Current address: 02:05:86:24:88:03, Hardware address: 02:05:86:24:88:03
Last flapped : 2022-03-14 10:56:00 PDT (6d 23:47 ago)
Input rate : 0 bps (0 pps)
Output rate : 0 bps (0 pps)
Active alarms : None
Active defects : None
PCS statistics Seconds
Bit errors 0
Errored blocks 0
Ethernet FEC statistics Errors

135
FEC Corrected Errors 0
FEC Uncorrected Errors 0
FEC Corrected Errors Rate 0
FEC Uncorrected Errors Rate 0
Interface transmit statistics: Disabled
Logical interface xe-0/0/0.0 (Index 555) (SNMP ifIndex 540)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4004000 Encapsulation: ENET2
Input packets : 47384
Output packets: 48579
Protocol inet, MTU: 1500
Max nh cache: 75000, New hold nh limit: 75000, Curr nh cnt: 0, Curr new hold cnt: 0, NH drop
cnt: 0
Flags: Sendbcast-pkt-to-re
Protocol inet6, MTU: 1500
Max nh cache: 75000, New hold nh limit: 75000, Curr nh cnt: 1, Curr new hold cnt: 0, NH drop
cnt: 0
Flags: Is-Primary
Addresses, Flags: Is-Preferred
Destination: fe80::/64, Local: fe80::205:86ff:fe24:8803
user@leaf1> show interfaces terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
gr-0/0/0 up up
pfe-0/0/0 up up
pfe-0/0/0.16383 up up inet
inet6
pfh-0/0/0 up up
pfh-0/0/0.16383 up up inet
pfh-0/0/0.16384 up up inet
xe-0/0/0.0 up up inet
inet6 fe80::205:86ff:fe24:8803/64
xe-0/0/1 up up
xe-0/0/1.0 up up inet
inet6 fe80::205:86ff:fe24:8807/64
xe-0/0/2 up up
xe-0/0/2.16386 up up
. . .
jsrv up up
jsrv.1 up up inet 128.0.0.127/2
lo0 up up

136
lo0.0 up up inet
inet6 2001:db8:100::3
fe80::205:860f:fcc1:6f00
lo0.16385 up up inet
lsi up up
mtun up up
pimd up up
pime up up
pip0 up up
tap up up
vme up down
vtep up up
The output shows that the Leaf 1's fabric interfaces are operational. Also seen is the lack of an explicit
IPv4 or IPv6 address. Only the inet and inet6 families are configured on the interface. As a result, only
IPv6 link-local IPv6 addresses are present as part of IPv6 stateless address configuration. We also note
the loopback address has the expected IPv6 address assignment.
The output of the show interfaces terse CLI command makes it easy to verify the state and configuration
of all interfaces, including the loopback address.
Confirm all fabric interfaces are sending and receiving IPv6 router advertisements (RAs).
user@leaf1> show ipv6 router-advertisement
Interface: xe-0/0/0.0
Advertisements sent: 1512, last sent 00:01:05 ago
Solicits sent: 1, last sent 6d 23:49:07 ago
Solicits received: 3, last received 4d 18:18:57 ago
Advertisements received: 503
Solicited router advertisement unicast: Disable
IPv6 RA Preference: DEFAULT/MEDIUM
Advertisement from fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03, heard 4d 18:15:17 ago
Managed: 0
Other configuration: 0
Reachable time: 0 ms
Default lifetime: 0 sec
Retransmit timer: 0 ms
Current hop limit: 64
Interface: xe-0/0/1.0
Advertisements sent: 1523, last sent 00:02:05 ago
Solicits sent: 1, last sent 6d 23:49:07 ago
Solicits received: 0
Advertisements received: 1515

137
Solicited router advertisement unicast: Disable
IPv6 RA Preference: DEFAULT/MEDIUM
Advertisement from fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503, heard 00:03:47 ago
Managed: 0
Other configuration: 0
Reachable time: 0 ms
Default lifetime: 1800 sec
Retransmit timer: 0 ms
Current hop limit: 64
The output confirms that Leaf 1 is sending, and receiving RAs, to and from both spine devices. The RAs
correctly report the sending end's link-local address.
Confirm the fabric devices have learned the MAC to link-local address bindings of all directly attached
IPv6 neighbors using IPv6 ND.
user@leaf1> show ipv6 neighbors
IPv6 Address Linklayer Address State Exp Rtr Secure
Interface
fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 02:05:86:0c:dd:03 reachable 19 yes no
xe-0/0/0.0
fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 02:05:86:c6:b5:03 reachable 34 yes no
xe-0/0/1.0
Total entries: 2
The output confirms that Leaf 1 has successfully resolved the MAC to link-local address of both its
neighbors, that is, the two spine devices.
Confirm that you can ping a neighbor using its link-local address.
user@leaf1> ping fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 interface xe-0/0/0
PING6(56=40+8+8 bytes) fe80::205:86ff:fec1:6f03 --> fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03
16 bytes from fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03, icmp_seq=0 hlim=64 time=117.229 ms
16 bytes from fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03, icmp_seq=1 hlim=64 time=114.074 ms
^C
--- fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 ping6 statistics ---
2 packets transmitted, 2 packets received, 0% packet loss
round-trip min/avg/max/std-dev = 114.074/115.651/117.229/1.577 ms
The ping from Leaf 1 to Spine 1 succeeds. This result confirms IPv6 connectivity using link-local
addresses.

138
Confirm that all fabric devices have established BGP peering sessions to the directly connected
neighbors.
user@leaf1> show bgp summary
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 1 Peers: 2 Down peers: 0
Auto-discovered peers: 2
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
inet6.0
4 4 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03%xe-0/0/0.0 65001 6 5 0 1
50 Establ
inet6.0: 2/2/2/0
fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503%xe-0/0/1.0 65002 6 6 0 1
51 Establ
inet6.0: 2/2/2/0
As expected, the output shows that the Leaf 1 device has two BGP sessions established. The display
confirms that IPv6 routes are exchanged. We include more on the confirmation later. If desired, show
details about a BGP neighbor:
user@leaf1> show bgp neighbor
Peer: fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03%xe-0/0/0.0+56258 AS 65001 Local:
fe80::205:86ff:fec1:6f03%xe-0/0/0.0+179 AS 65003
Group: auto-disc Routing-Instance: master
Forwarding routing-instance: master
Type: External State: Established Flags: <Sync PeerAsList AutoDiscoveredNdp>
Last State: OpenConfirm Last Event: RecvKeepAlive
Last Error: None
Export: [ DIRECT-RTS ]
Options: <AddressFamily Multipath LocalAS Refresh>
Options: <MultipathAs>
Options: <GracefulShutdownRcv>
Address families configured: inet6-unicast
Holdtime: 90 Preference: 170
Graceful Shutdown Receiver local-preference: 0
Local AS: 65003 Local System AS: 0
Number of flaps: 1

139
Last flap event: TransportError
Peer ID: 10.0.0.1 Local ID: 10.0.0.3 Active Holdtime: 90
Keepalive Interval: 30 Group index: 0 Peer index: 1 SNMP index: 2
I/O Session Thread: bgpio-0 State: Enabled
BFD: disabled, down
Local Interface: xe-0/0/0.0
NLRI for restart configured on peer: inet6-unicast
NLRI advertised by peer: inet6-unicast
NLRI for this session: inet6-unicast
Peer supports Refresh capability (2)
Stale routes from peer are kept for: 300
Peer does not support Restarter functionality
Restart flag received from the peer: Notification
NLRI that restart is negotiated for: inet6-unicast
NLRI of received end-of-rib markers: inet6-unicast
NLRI of all end-of-rib markers sent: inet6-unicast
Peer does not support LLGR Restarter functionality
Peer supports 4 byte AS extension (peer-as 65001)
Peer does not support Addpath
NLRI(s) enabled for color nexthop resolution: inet6-unicast
Table inet6.0 Bit: 20000
RIB State: BGP restart is complete
Send state: in sync
Active prefixes: 2
Received prefixes: 2
Accepted prefixes: 2
Suppressed due to damping: 0
Advertised prefixes: 2
Last traffic (seconds): Received 1 Sent 27 Checked 56
Input messages: Total 7 Updates 3 Refreshes 0 Octets 342
Output messages: Total 5 Updates 2 Refreshes 0 Octets 260
Output Queue[1]: 0 (inet6.0, inet6-unicast)
. . .
Confirm that all nodes are advertising their loopback address while learning the loopback address of
other nodes.
user@leaf1> show route protocol bgp
inet.0: 8 destinations, 8 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
inet6.0: 8 destinations, 11 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both

140
2001:db8:100::1/128*[BGP/170] 00:33:43, localpref 100
AS path: 65001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 via xe-0/0/0.0
[BGP/170] 00:33:46, localpref 100
AS path: 65002 65004 65001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 via xe-0/0/1.0
2001:db8:100::2/128*[BGP/170] 00:33:46, localpref 100
AS path: 65002 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 via xe-0/0/1.0
[BGP/170] 00:33:43, localpref 100
AS path: 65001 65004 65002 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 via xe-0/0/0.0
2001:db8:100::4/128*[BGP/170] 00:33:46, localpref 100
AS path: 65002 65004 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 via xe-0/0/1.0
[BGP/170] 00:33:43, localpref 100
AS path: 65001 65004 I, validation-state: unverified
> to fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 via xe-0/0/0.0
As expected, the output confirms that Leaf 1 has learned the loopback addresses of all other fabric
devices. Note that for Leaf 2, it shows two equal costs paths, one path through Spine 1 and the other
through Spine 2.
If needed, you can help isolate routing problems by displaying the specific routes advertised to, or
received from, a given BGP neighbor. Note that as with a ping to a link-local address, you must qualify
the peer's link-local IP with the corresponding egress interface:
user@leaf1> show route advertising-protocol bgp fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03%xe-0/0/0.0
inet6.0: 8 destinations, 10 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 2001:db8:100::2/128 Self 65002 I
* 2001:db8:100::3/128 Self I
user@leaf1> show route receive-protocol bgp fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03%xe-0/0/0.0
inet.0: 8 destinations, 8 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
inet6.0: 8 destinations, 10 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 2001:db8:100::1/128 fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 65001 I
* 2001:db8:100::4/128 fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 65001 65004 I

141
Confirm that the fabric supports ECMP load balancing. Display details about the routes Leaf 1 use to
reach Leaf 2. You expect two equal costs routes, one through each spine device. In the section below,
you confirm ECMP in both the routing and forwarding tables (RIB and FIB).
user@leaf1> show route 2001:db8:100::4 detail
inet6.0: 8 destinations, 11 routes (8 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
2001:db8:100::4/128 (2 entries, 1 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0xd057cc8
Next-hop reference count: 2
Source: fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03%xe-0/0/0.0
Next hop: fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03 via xe-0/0/0.0, selected
Session Id: 0
Next hop: fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 via xe-0/0/1.0
Session Id: 0
State: <Active Ext>
Peer AS: 65001
Age: 1:39:21
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_0_65003.fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03
Announcement bits (3): 0-KRT 1-BGP_Multi_Path 2-BGP_RT_Background
AS path: 65001 65004 I
Accepted Multipath
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 10.0.0.1
Thread: junos-main
BGP Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 1731
Address: 0xd22cc50
Next-hop reference count: 5
Source: fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503%xe-0/0/1.0
Next hop: fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503 via xe-0/0/1.0, selected
Session Id: 321
State: <Ext>
Inactive reason: Active preferred
Peer AS: 65002
Age: 1:39:21
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_0_65003.fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503
AS path: 65002 65004 I
Accepted MultipathContrib

142
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 10.0.0.2
Thread: junos-main
user@leaf1> show route forwarding-table destination 2001:db8:100::4
Routing table: default.inet6
Internet6:
Destination Type RtRef Next hop Type Index NhRef Netif
2001:db8:100::4/128 user 0 ulst 131070 2
fe80::205:86ff:fe0c:dd03
ucst 1730 6 xe-0/0/0.0
fe80::205:86ff:fec6:b503
ucst 1731 6 xe-0/0/1.0
The output confirms that both paths between Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 are actively used to forward traffic and
are part of a multipath route.
Confirm that Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 have connectivity over the underlay.
user@leaf1> traceroute no-resolve 2001:db8:100::4
traceroute6 to 2001:db8:100::4 (2001:db8:100::4) from 2001:db8:100::3, 64 hops max, 12 byte
packets
1 2001:db8:100::1 220.185 ms 210.200 ms 203.652 ms
2 2001:db8:100::4 213.774 ms 246.773 ms 186.533 ms
The output confirms that Leaf 1 and Leaf 2 have underlay connectivity. The path shows that this flow
went through Spine 1, as indicated by its loopback address as the first hop.
This underlay is now ready to support your choice of EVPN-VXLAN overlay. See Understanding EVPN
with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation for details on available overlay options.
Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring a Bridged Overlay | 144

143
Bridged Overlay — Release History | 171
A bridged overlay provides Ethernet bridging between leaf devices in an EVPN network, as shown in
Figure 39 on page 143. This overlay type simply extends VLANs between the leaf devices across VXLAN
tunnels. Bridged overlays provide an entry level overlay style for data center networks that require
Ethernet connectivity but do not need routing services between the VLANs.
In this example, loopback interfaces on the leaf devices act as VXLAN tunnel endpoints (VTEPs). The
tunnels enable the leaf devices to send VLAN traffic to other leaf devices and Ethernet-connected end
systems in the data center. The spine devices only provide basic EBGP underlay and IBGP overlay
connectivity for these leaf-to-leaf VXLAN tunnels.
Figure 39: Bridged Overlay

144
NOTE: If inter-VLAN routing is required for a bridged overlay, you can use an MX Series
router or SRX Series security device that is external to the EVPN/VXLAN fabric.
Otherwise, you can select one of the other overlay types that incorporate routing (such
as an "edge-routed bridging overlay" on page 236, a "centrally-routed bridging overlay"
on page 172, or a "routed overlay" on page 267) discussed in this Cloud Data Center
Architecture Guide.
The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure a bridged overlay:
Configuring a Bridged Overlay
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 145
Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device | 147
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 148
Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device | 153
Bridged overlays are supported on all platforms included in this reference design. To configure a bridged
overlay, you configure VNIs, VLANs, and VTEPs on the leaf devices, and BGP on the spine devices. We
support either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric (with supported platforms) as the fabric infrastructure
with bridged overlay architectures.
When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, the focus is on providing overlay transport
services between the leaf devices. Consequently, you configure an IP Fabric underlay and IBGP overlay
peering with IPv4, or an IPv6 Fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering. There are no VTEPs or
IRB interfaces needed, because the spine device does not provide any routing functionality or EVPN/
VXLAN capabilities in a bridged overlay.
On the leaf devices, you can configure a bridged overlay using the default switch instance or using
MAC-VRF instances.
NOTE: We support EVPN-VXLAN on devices running Junos OS Evolved only with MAC-
VRF instance configurations.

145
In addition, we support the IPv6 Fabric infrastructure design only with MAC-VRF
instance configurations.
Some configuration steps that affect the Layer 2 configuration differ with MAC-VRF instances. Likewise,
one or two steps might differ for IPv6 Fabric configurations compared to IPv4 Fabric configurations. The
leaf device configuration includes the following steps:
• Enable EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation to connect to other leaf devices, and configure the
loopback interface as a VTEP source interface. If you are using MAC-VRF instances instead of the
default switching instance, configure a MAC-VRF instance with these parameters in the MAC-VRF
instance. If your fabric uses an IPv6 Fabric, you configure the VTEP source interface as an IPv6
interface.
• Establish route targets and route distinguishers. If you are using MAC-VRF instances instead of the
default switching instance, configure a MAC-VRF instance with these parameters in the MAC-VRF
instance.
• Configure Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI) settings.
• Map VLANs to VNIs.
Again, you do not include IRB interfaces or routing on the leaf devices for this overlay method.
The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the bridged overlay:
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device
To configure a bridged overlay on a spine device, perform the following steps:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure
40 on page 146.

146
Figure 40: Bridged Overlay – Spine Device
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a spine device, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and
Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead. Those instructions include how to configure the
IPv6 underlay connectivity with EBGP and IPv6 overlay peering.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine
devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, you don’t need this step. Step 1 also covers how to configure the
EBGP IPv6 overlay peering that corresponds to the IPv6 underlay connectivity configuration.
3. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that
you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, set the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support
EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile

147
Verifying a Bridged Overlay on the Spine Device
Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your spine devices:
1. Verify that the spine device has reachability to the leaf devices. This output shows the possible
routes to Leaf 1.
(With an IPv6 Fabric, enter this command with the IPv6 address of the spine device instead of an
IPv4 address.)
user@spine-1> show route 192.168.1.1
inet.0: 446 destinations, 19761 routes (446 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
192.168.1.1/32 *[BGP/170] 00:06:29, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000010 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.1 via ae1.0
...
[BGP/170] 00:06:18, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000106 4200000004 4200000010 I, validation-state:
unverified
> to 172.16.96.1 via ae96.0
2. Verify that IBGP is functional on the spine devices acting as a route reflector cluster. You should see
peer relationships with all spine device loopback interfaces (192.168.0.1 through 192.168.0.4) and all
leaf device loopback interfaces (192.168.1.1 through 192.168.1.96).
Use the same command if you have an IPv6 Fabric with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering. In the output,
look for the IPv6 addresses of the peer device interconnecting interfaces to verify underlay EBGP
connectivity. Look for peer device loopback addresses to verify overlay EBGP peering. Ensure that
the state is Establ (established).
user@spine-1> show bgp summary
Groups: 5 Peers: 221 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
inet.0
9711 182 0 0 0 0
...
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
192.168.0.2 421000001 28724 31106 0 0 22:40:41 Establ

148
192.168.0.3 421000001 27424 32106 0 0 22:43:41 Establ
192.168.0.4 421000001 29457 30494 0 0 22:39:04 Establ
192.168.1.1 421000001 3814 75108 0 0 22:43:54 Establ
...
192.168.1.96 421000001 4831 73047 0 0 22:43:41 Establ
Configuring a Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device
To configure a bridged overlay on a leaf device, perform the following:
NOTE:
• The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 1, as shown in Figure 41 on
page 148.
Figure 41: Bridged Overlay – Leaf Device

149
1. Configure the IP Fabric underlay and overlay:
For an IP Fabric underlay using IPv4:
• Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
• Confirm that your IBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure IPv4 IBGP overlay peering
on your leaf device, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
For an IPv6 Fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering:
• Ensure the IPv6 underlay is in place and the EBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure
an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with
EBGP" on page 114.
2. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation, and specify the VTEP source interface (in
this case, the loopback interface of the leaf device).
If your configuration uses the default instance, you configure EVPN-VXLAN at the global level. You
also specify the VTEP source interface at the [edit switch-options] hierarchy level:
Leaf 1 (Default Instance):
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, define a routing instance of type mac-vrf. Then
configure EVPN-VXLAN and the VTEP source interface at that MAC-VRF routing instance hierarchy
level. You also must configure a service type for the MAC-VRF instance. We configure the vlan-aware
service type so you can associate multiple VLANs with the MAC-VRF instance. This setting is
consistent with the alternative configuration that uses the default instance.
Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
If you have an IPv6 Fabric infrastructure (supported only with MAC-VRF instances), in this step you
include the inet6 option when you configure the VTEP source interface to use the device loopback
address. This option enables IPv6 VXLAN tunneling in the fabric. This is the only difference in the

150
MAC-VRF instance configuration with an IPv6 Fabric as compared to the MAC-VRF instance
configuration with an IPv4 Fabric.
Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance with an IPv6 Fabric):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0 inet6
3. Define an EVPN route target and route distinguisher, and use the auto option to derive route targets
automatically. Setting these parameters specifies how the routes are imported and exported. The
import and export of routes from a bridging table is the basis for dynamic overlays. In this case,
members of the global BGP community with a route target of target:64512:1111 participate in the
exchange of EVPN/VXLAN information.
If your configuration uses the default instance, you use statements in the [edit switch-options]
hierarchy, as follows:
Leaf 1 (Default Instance):
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.1:1
set switch-options vrf-target target:64512:1111
set switch-options vrf-target auto
The main difference with a MAC-VRF configuration is that you configure these statements in the
MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level, as follows:
Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.1:1
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target target:64512:1111
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target auto
NOTE: A specific route target processes EVPN Type 1 routes, while an automatic route
target processes Type 2 routes. This reference design requires both route targets.
4. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on devices in the QFX5000 line running Junos OS.
A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF
instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on

151
the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you
configure the shared tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach
remote VTEPs. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS
because those devices can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. You also don’t need
to configure this option on devices running Junos OS Evolved, where shared tunnels are enabled by
default.
Include the following statement to globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels
NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.
5. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on all
interfaces) on the device:
set forwarding-options tunnel-termination
6. Configure ESI settings. Because the end systems in this reference design are multihomed to three leaf
devices per device type cluster (such as QFX5100), you must configure the same ESI identifier and
LACP system identifier on all three leaf devices for each unique end system. Unlike other topologies
where you would configure a different LACP system identifier per leaf device and have VXLAN select
a single designated forwarder, use the same LACP system identifier to allow the 3 leaf devices to
appear as a single LAG to a multihomed end system. In addition, use the same aggregated Ethernet
interface number for all ports included in the ESI.
The configuration for Leaf 1 is shown below, but you must replicate this configuration on both Leaf 2
and Leaf 3 per the topology shown in Figure 42 on page 152.
TIP: When you create an ESI number, always set the high order octet to 00 to indicate
the ESI is manually created. The other 9 octets can be any hexadecimal value from 00 to
FF.

152
Figure 42: ESI Topology for Leaf 1, Leaf 2, and Leaf 3
Leaf 1:
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:51:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members [ 10 20 30 40 ]
set interfaces xe-0/0/10 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces xe-0/0/11 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, you must also add the configured aggregated
Ethernet interface to the MAC-VRF instance:
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 interface ae11.0
7. Configure VLANs and map them to VNIs. This step enables the VLANs to participate in VNIs across
the EVPN/VXLAN domain.
This step shows the VLAN to VNI mapping either in the default instance or in a MAC-VRF instance
configuration.

153
Leaf 1 (Default Instance):
set vlans VNI_1000 vlan-id 10
set vlans VNI_1000 vxlan vni 1000
set vlans VNI_2000 vlan-id 20
set vlans VNI_2000 vxlan vni 2000
set vlans VNI_3000 vlan-id 30
set vlans VNI_3000 vxlan vni 3000
set vlans VNI_4000 vlan-id 40
set vlans VNI_4000 vxlan vni 4000
Leaf 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):
The only difference with a MAC-VRF instance configuration is that you configure these statements in
the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level, as follows:
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_1000 vlan-id 10
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_1000 vxlan vni 1000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_2000 vlan-id 20
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_2000 vxlan vni 2000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_3000 vlan-id 30
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_3000 vxlan vni 3000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_4000 vlan-id 40
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_4000 vxlan vni 4000
Verifying the Bridged Overlay on the Leaf Device
Run the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your leaf devices.
The commands here show output for a default instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance
configuration, you can alternatively use:
• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this
section.
• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this
section.
See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernet-
switching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands.
The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing
instances as this section shows for the default instance. One main difference you might see is in the

154
output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared
tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format:
vtep-index.shared-tunnel-unit
where:
• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.
• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical
interface.
For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two
remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:
vtep-26.32823
vtep-26.32824
If your configuration uses an IPv6 Fabric, you provide IPv6 address parameters where applicable. Output
from the commands that display IP addresses reflect the IPv6 device and interface addresses from the
underlying fabric. See "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with
EBGP" on page 114 for the fabric parameters reflected in command outputs in this section with an IPv6
Fabric.
1. Verify the interfaces are operational. Interfaces xe-0/0/10 and xe-0/0/11 are dual homed to the
Ethernet-connected end system through interface ae11, while interfaces et-0/0/48 through
et-0/0/51 are uplinks to the four spine devices.
user@leaf-1> show interfaces terse | match ae.*
xe-0/0/10.0 up up aenet --> ae11.0
et-0/0/48.0 up up aenet --> ae1.0
et-0/0/49.0 up up aenet --> ae2.0
et-0/0/50.0 up up aenet --> ae3.0
et-0/0/51.0 up up aenet --> ae4.0
xe-0/0/11.0 up up aenet --> ae11.0
ae1 up up ## To Spine 1
ae1.0 up up inet 172.16.1.1/30
ae2 up up ## To Spine 2
ae2.0 up up inet 172.16.1.5/30
ae3 up up ## To Spine 3
ae3.0 up up inet 172.16.1.9/30
ae4 up up ## To Spine 4

155
ae4.0 up up inet 172.16.1.13/30
ae11 up up ## To End System
ae11.0 up up eth-switch
user@leaf-1> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/48 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/48 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/48 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
...
Aggregated interface: ae11
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/10 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/10 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/11 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/11 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/10 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-0/0/11 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching interface ae11
Routing Instance Name : default-switch
Logical Interface flags (DL - disable learning, AD - packet action drop,
LH - MAC limit hit, DN - interface down,
MMAS - Mac-move action shutdown, AS - Autostate-exclude enabled,
SCTL - shutdown by Storm-control, MI - MAC+IP limit hit)
Logical Vlan TAG MAC MAC+IP STP Logical
Tagging
interface members limit limit state interface flags
ae11.0 65535 0
tagged
VNI_1000 10 65535 0 Forwarding
tagged
VNI_2000 20 65535 0 Forwarding
tagged
VNI_3000 30 65535 0 Forwarding
tagged

156
VNI_4000 40 65535 0 Forwarding
tagged
2. Verify that the leaf devices have reachability to their peer leaf devices.
For example, on Leaf 1 with an IPv6 Fabric, view the possible routes to remote Leaf 2 using the show
route address command with device IPv6 address 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 for Leaf 2.
user@leaf-1> show route 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
inet6.0: 18 destinations, 25 routes (18 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2001:db8::192:168:1:2/128
*[BGP/170] 18:53:41, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 18:53:41, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000002 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
:vxlan.inet6.0: 11 destinations, 11 routes (11 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2001:db8::192:168:1:2/128
*[Static/1] 22:23:04, metric2 0
to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
3. Verify on Leaf 1 and Leaf 3 that the Ethernet switching table has installed both the local MAC
addresses and the remote MAC addresses learned through the overlay.
NOTE: To identify end systems learned remotely from the EVPN overlay, look for
the MAC address, ESI logical interface, and ESI number. For example, Leaf 1 learns
about an end system with the MAC address of 02:0c:10:03:02:02 through esi.1885. This
end system has an ESI number of 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01. Consequently, this

157
matches the ESI number configured for Leaf 4, 5, and 6 (QFX5110 switches), so we
know that this end system is multihomed to these three leaf devices.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 30
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb
MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 10 entries, 10 learned
Routing instance : default-switch
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
## Learned locally
VNI_3000 02:0c:10:03:02:01 DL ae11.0
## Learned from the QFX5110 switches - Leaf 4 to 6
VNI_3000 02:0c:10:03:02:02 DR esi.1885
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
## Learned from the QFX5200 switches - Leaf 7 to 9
VNI_3000 02:0c:10:03:02:03 DR esi.1887
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
## Learned from the QFX10002 switches - Leaf 10 to 12
VNI_3000 02:0c:10:03:02:04 DR esi.1892
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
## End System MAC address, connected locally to the leaf
device
02:0c:10:03:02:01
## MAC address learned over the overlay, these end systems
are also multihomed
02:0c:10:03:02:02,03,04
4. Verify the remote EVPN routes from a specific VNI and MAC address.
NOTE: The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:route-
distinguisher:vni:mac-address.

158
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric, view the remote EVPN routes from VNI 1000 and MAC address
02:0c:10:01:02:02. In this case, the EVPN routes come from Leaf 4 (route distinguisher
192.168.1.4) by way of Spine 1 (192.168.0.1).
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 1000 evpn-mac-address
02:0c:10:01:02:02
bgp.evpn.0: 910 destinations, 3497 routes (904 active, 0 holddown, 24 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2:192.168.1.4:1::1000::02:0c:10:01:02:02/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 1000 evpn-mac-address
02:0c:10:01:02:02 detail
bgp.evpn.0: 925 destinations, 3557 routes (919 active, 0 holddown, 24 hidden)
2:192.168.1.4:1::1000::02:0c:10:01:02:02/304 MAC/IP (4 entries, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.4:1
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0xb3a2170
Next-hop reference count: 160
Source: 192.168.0.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.1.4
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <Active Int Ext>
Local AS: 4210000001 Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 13:42 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001.192.168.0.1
AS path: I (Originator)

159
Cluster list: 192.168.0.10
Originator ID: 192.168.1.4
Communities: target:62273:268445456 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Route Label: 1000
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.0.1
Secondary Tables: default-switch.evpn.0
...
## This output has been abbreviated.
Or with an IPv6 Fabric, for example, view the remote EVPN routes from VNI 1000 and MAC
address c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00. In this case, the EVPN routes come from Leaf 2 (route distinguisher
192.168.1.2) by way of Spine 1 (2001:db8::192:168:0:1).
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 1000 evpn-mac-address
c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00
bgp.evpn.0: 43916 destinations, 76851 routes (43916 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2:192.168.1.2:1::1000::c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 19:46:55, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:2
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 23:16:47, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:1
AS path: 4200000002 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
2:192.168.1.2:1::1000::c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00::77.5.241.242/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 19:46:55, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:2
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 23:16:47, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:1
AS path: 4200000002 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
2:192.168.1.2:1::1000::c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00::2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 19:46:55, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:2
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 23:16:47, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:1
AS path: 4200000002 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified

160
> to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
2:192.168.1.2:1::1000::c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00::fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 19:46:55, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:2
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 23:16:47, localpref 100, from 2001:db8::192:168:0:1
AS path: 4200000002 4200000012 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 1000 evpn-mac-address
c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00 detail
bgp.evpn.0: 43916 destinations, 76851 routes (43916 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
2:192.168.1.2:1::1000::c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00/304 MAC/IP (2 entries, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.2:1
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x8c0701c
Next-hop reference count: 41840
Source: 2001:db8::192:168:0:1
Protocol next hop: 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
State: <Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4200000001
Age: 23:16:11 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4200000001_42000000.2001:db8::192:168:0:1
AS path: 4200000001 4200000012 I
Communities: target:2:1000 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) mac-mobility:0x1:sticky
(sequence 0)
Import Accepted
Route Label: 1000
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.0.1
Secondary Tables: MAC-VRF-1.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0

161
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
2001:db8::192:168:1:2/128 Originating RIB: inet6.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 2001:db8::173:16:1:1 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 2001:db8::173:16:2:1 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
5. Verify the source and destination address of each VTEP interface and view their status. Use the show
ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source and show interfaces vtep commands.
NOTE: A scaled-out reference design can have 96 leaf devices, which corresponds
to 96 VTEP interfaces - one VTEP interface per leaf device. The output here is
truncated for readability.
The following example shows these commands with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx
<default> 0 192.168.1.1 lo0.0 0
L2-RTT Bridge Domain VNID MC-Group-IP
default-switch VNI_1000+10 1000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_2000+20 2000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_3000+30 3000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_4000+40 4000 0.0.0.0
user@leaf-1> show interfaces terse vtep
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
vtep up up
vtep.32768 up up
vtep.32769 up up eth-switch
vtep.32770 up up eth-switch
vtep.32771 up up eth-switch
vtep.32772 up up eth-switch
...
vtep.32869 up up eth-switch
user@leaf-1> show interfaces vtep
Physical interface: vtep, Enabled, Physical link is Up

162
Interface index: 646, SNMP ifIndex: 503
Type: Software-Pseudo, Link-level type: VxLAN-Tunnel-Endpoint, MTU: Unlimited, Speed:
Unlimited
Device flags : Present Running
Link type : Full-Duplex
Link flags : None
Last flapped : Never
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32768 (Index 554) (SNMP ifIndex 648)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.1, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
... Logical interface vtep.32814 (Index 613) (SNMP ifIndex 903)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.96, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 6364
Protocol eth-switch, MTU: Unlimited
Flags: Trunk-Mode
Or the following example shows these commands with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-
IP
<default> 0 2001:db8::192:168:1:1 lo0.0 0
L2-RTT Bridge Domain VNID Translation-VNID MC-Group-IP
MAC-VRF-1 VNI_1000+10 1000 ::
MAC-VRF-1 VNI_2000+20 2000 ::
MAC-VRF-1 VNI_3000+30 3000 ::
MAC-VRF-1 VNI_4000+40 4000 ::
user@leaf-1> show interfaces vtep
Physical interface: vtep, Enabled, Physical link is Up
Interface index: 650, SNMP ifIndex: 506

163
Type: Software-Pseudo, Link-level type: VxLAN-Tunnel-Endpoint, MTU: Unlimited, Speed:
Unlimited
Device flags : Present Running
Link type : Full-Duplex
Link flags : None
Last flapped : Never
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32768 (Index 2031) (SNMP ifIndex 1737)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 2001:db8::192:168:1:1, L2 Routing
Instance: MAC-VRF-1, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32775 (Index 2038) (SNMP ifIndex 1744)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 2001:db8::192:168:1:1, L2 Routing
Instance: default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32776 (Index 829) (SNMP ifIndex 1775)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 2001:db8::192:168:1:1, L3 Routing
Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32777 (Index 830) (SNMP ifIndex 1776)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Shared Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 2001:db8::192:168:1:2, L3
Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 3873955
Output packets: 12766
Protocol eth-switch, MTU: Unlimited
Flags: Is-Primary, Trunk-Mode
6. Verify that each VNI maps to the associated VXLAN tunnel.

164
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote
0 192.168.1.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.1.2 586 1782
VNID MC-Group-IP
2000 0.0.0.0
4000 0.0.0.0
1000 0.0.0.0
3000 0.0.0.0
...
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.1.96 613 1820
VNID MC-Group-IP
1000 0.0.0.0
2000 0.0.0.0
3000 0.0.0.0
4000 0.0.0.0
Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-
IP
<default> 0 2001:db8::192:168:1:1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-IP Flags
2001:db8::192:168:1:2 830 vtep.32777 22929 RNVE
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-
IP Flags
2001:db8::192:168:1:2 MAC-VRF-1 675430409 vtep-532.32777 22929 RNVE
VNID MC-Group-IP
1000 ::
2000 ::
3000 ::
4000 ::
7. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnels.

165
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote mac-table
MAC flags (S -static MAC, D -dynamic MAC, L -locally learned, C -Control MAC
SE -Statistics enabled, NM -Non configured MAC, R -Remote PE MAC, P -Pinned MAC)
Logical system : <default>
Routing instance : default-switch
Bridging domain : VNI_1000+10, VLAN : 10, VNID : 1000
MAC MAC Logical Remote VTEP
address flags interface IP address
02:0c:10:01:02:04 DR esi.1764 192.168.1.11 192.168.1.12 192.168.1.10
02:0c:10:01:02:02 DR esi.1771 192.168.1.6 192.168.1.4
02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.1774 192.168.1.7
...
0e:ad:10:01:00:60 D vtep.32784 192.168.1.84
0e:ad:10:01:00:30 D vtep.32785 192.168.1.36
0e:ad:10:01:00:48 D vtep.32786 192.168.1.60
0e:ad:10:01:00:4e D vtep.32788 192.168.1.66
0e:ad:10:01:00:4c D vtep.32789 192.168.1.64
0e:ad:10:01:00:36 D vtep.32790 192.168.1.42
...
---(more)---
Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote mac-table
MAC flags (S -static MAC, D -dynamic MAC, L -locally learned, C -Control MAC
SE -Statistics enabled, NM -Non configured MAC, R -Remote PE MAC, P -Pinned MAC)
Logical system : <default>
Routing instance : MAC-VRF-1
Bridging domain : VNI_1000+10, VLAN : 10, VNID : 1000
MAC MAC Logical Remote VTEP
address flags interface IP address

166
00:00:5e:00:00:04 DRP vtep-532.32777 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
00:00:00:00:09:80 S,NM vtep-532.32777 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00 DRP vtep-532.32777 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
8. Verify multihoming information of the gateway and the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi
## Local AE link – QFX5100 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01 default-switch 1768 131078 esi.1768 ae11.0,
2
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.2 vtep.32780 1782 1 2
192.168.1.3 vtep.32772 1767 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX5110 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01 default-switch 1771 131081 esi.1771
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.6 vtep.32771 1766 2 2
192.168.1.4 vtep.32770 1765 1 2
192.168.1.5 vtep.32774 1770 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX5200 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01 default-switch 1774 131084 esi.1774
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.9 vtep.32778 1776 2 2
192.168.1.8 vtep.32777 1775 1 2
192.168.1.7 vtep.32776 1773 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX10002 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01 default-switch 1764 131074 esi.1764
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.11 vtep.32775 1772 2 2

167
192.168.1.12 vtep.32773 1769 1 2
192.168.1.10 vtep.32769 1759 0 2
...
Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL #RVTEPs
00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:03:00:05 MAC-VRF-1 36499 525338 esi.36499 ae5.0,
1 Aliasing
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS MAC-COUNT
2001:db8::191:168:1:2 vtep-532.32777 22929 0 2 0
9. Verify that the VXLAN tunnel from one leaf to another leaf is load balanced with equal cost
multipathing (ECMP) over the underlay.
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive | find vtep.32770
Destination: vtep.32770
Route type: interface
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 576
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1765 Reference: 12
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 131076 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 131193 Reference: 238
Nexthop: 172.16.1.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1791 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1794 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1758 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1795 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0

168
10. Verify that remote MAC addresses are reachable through ECMP.
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive destination
02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Routing table: default-switch.evpn-vxlan [Index 4]
Bridging domain: VNI_1000.evpn-vxlan [Index 3]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,
Destination: 02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 582
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 169 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x400000000000000003000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1773 Reference: 12
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 131085 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 131193 Reference: 238
Nexthop: 172.16.1.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1791 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1794 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1758 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1795 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0
NOTE: Though the MAC address is reachable over multiple VTEP interfaces,
QFX5100, QFX5110, QFX5120-32C, and QFX5200 switches do not support ECMP
across the overlay because of a merchant ASIC limitation. Only the QFX10000 line

169
of switches contain a custom Juniper Networks ASIC that supports ECMP across
both the overlay and the underlay.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 10 | match 02:0c:10:01:02:03
VNI_1000 02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.1774
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive destination
02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Routing table: default-switch.evpn-vxlan [Index 9]
Bridging domain: VNI_1000.evpn-vxlan [Index 3]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,
Destination: 02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 550
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 0 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x400000000000000001000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn, esi
Flags: sent to PFE
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097173 Reference: 5
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1947 Reference: 2
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1948 Reference: 8
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097174 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 2097280 Reference: 241
Nexthop: 172.16.10.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1950 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1956 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1861 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1960 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0

170
Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table MAC-VRF-1 extensive | find c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00
Destination: c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 1641
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 0 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask:
0x4000000000000000000000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 22929 Reference: 8358
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 524287 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 524286 Reference: 531
Nexthop: 2001:db8::173:16:1:1
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 22928 Reference: 6
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 2001:db8::173:16:2:1
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 12290 Reference: 6
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
11. Verify which device is the Designated Forwarder (DF) for broadcast, unknown, and multicast (BUM)
traffic coming from the VTEP tunnel.
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
NOTE: Because the DF IP address is listed as 192.168.1.2, Leaf 2 is the DF.
user@leaf-1> show evpn instance esi 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01 designated-forwarder
Instance: default-switch
Number of ethernet segments: 12
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01
Designated forwarder: 192.168.1.2
Or, for example, with an IPv4 Fabric:

171
NOTE: Because the DF IPv6 address is listed as 2001:db8::192:168:1:1, Leaf 1 is the
DF.
user@leaf-1> show evpn instance esi 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:03:00:05 designated-forwarder
Instance: MAC-VRF-1
Number of ethernet segments: 2
ESI: 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:03:00:05
Designated forwarder: 2001:db8::192:168:1:1
SEE ALSO
EVPN Overview
Understanding VXLANs
Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation
Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches
Bridged Overlay — Release History
Table 5 on page 171 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 5: Bridged Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design– Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train
support all features documented in this section.

172
Table 5: Bridged Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design– Release History (Continued)
Release Description
17.3R3-S2 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S2 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance | 173
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances | 205
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 229
A centrally-routed bridging (CRB) overlay performs routing at a central location in the EVPN network as
shown in Figure 43 on page 173, In this example, IRB interfaces are configured in the overlay at each
spine device to route traffic between the VLANs that originate at the leaf devices and end systems. For
an overview of CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric
Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.

173
Figure 43: CRB Overlay
The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to implement a CRB overlay:
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device | 176
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device | 180
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device | 186

174
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device | 190
The VLAN-aware CRB overlay is a basic overlay supported on all platforms included in this reference
design. It uses the simplest VLAN-aware method to enable a single, default switching instance that
supports up to 4094 VLANs.
As shown in Figure 44 on page 175, you configure VLANs at the leaf devices, and IRB interfaces for
routing at the spine devices. Such configuration is placed in the default switching instance at the [edit
vlans], [edit interfaces], [edit protocols evpn], and [edit switch-options] hierarchy levels. Routing instances
are not required for this overlay style, but can be implemented as an option depending on the needs of
your network.

175
Figure 44: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay
When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, you:
• Configure IRB interfaces to route traffic between Ethernet virtual network instances.
• Set virtual gateway addresses.
• Add VXLAN features to optimize traffic paths.
• Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the default switching instance or in a routing instance.
• Set the loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.
• Configure route distinguishers and route targets to direct traffic to peers.
• Map VLANs to VNIs.

176
When you implement this style of overlay on a leaf device, you:
• Configure Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI) settings.
• Enable EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the default switching instance.
• Establish route targets and route distinguishers.
• Map VLANs to VNIs.
For an overview of VLAN-aware CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in
"Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
If you need to implement more than 4094 VLANs, you can use a CRB overlay with virtual switches
(available on switches in the QFX10000 line) or MAC-VRF instances. See "Configuring a VLAN-Aware
CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances" on page 205. With MAC-VRF instances, you
expand your options to either isolate traffic between tenant systems or to enable routing and
forwarding between tenant systems.
The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the VLAN-aware CRB
overlay in the default switching instance:
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Spine Device
To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in the default switching instance on a spine device, perform the
following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure
45 on page 177.

177
Figure 45: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance – Spine Device
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a spine device, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine
devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
3. Configure the VTEP tunnel endpoint as the loopback address, and add a route distinguisher and a
route target (target:64512:1111). Also, keep your configuration simple by using the auto route target
option, which uses one target for both import and export.
Spine 1:
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:1

178
set switch-options vrf-target target:64512:1111
set switch-options vrf-target auto
4. Configure IRB interfaces for each VNI and the corresponding virtual gateway address (which
uses .254 in the 4th octet for each prefix). Include VXLAN features, such as proxy-macip-advertisement
and virtual-gateway-accept-data, to improve performance and manageability.
NOTE:
• We strongly recommend you set the proxy-macip-advertisement option on the spine
devices in a CRB fabric. This option enables one central gateway (the spine device)
to send both MAC address and IP address information (ARP entries) that it learns
locally to the other central gateways. This operation is called ARP synchronization.
Setting this option ensures that ARP synchronization happens efficiently if any leaf
devices in the fabric advertise only the MAC addresses in their EVPN Type 2 route
advertisements for their connected hosts. This setting improves convergence times
and traffic handling in the fabric.
• You must configure both the virtual-gateway-accept-data statement and the preferred
IPv4 and IPv6 addresses to use the ping operation and verify connectivity to the
virtual gateway IP address from the end system.
Spine 1:
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.1.0.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.1.0.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:0:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:0:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet address 10.1.1.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet address 10.1.1.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 200 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 200 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:1:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:1:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet address 10.1.2.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.2.254
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet address 10.1.2.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 300 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 300 virtual-gateway-accept-data

179
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:2:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:2:254
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:2:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet address 10.1.3.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.3.254
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet address 10.1.3.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 400 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 400 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:3:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:3:254
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:3:254/112
5. Configure a secondary logical unit on the loopback interface for the default switching instance.
Spine 1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 192.168.0.101/32
6. Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation. Include the no-gateway-community option to advertise the
virtual gateway and IRB MAC addresses to the EVPN peer devices so that Ethernet-only PE devices
can learn these MAC addresses.
Spine 1:
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
7. Configure mapping between VLANs and VXLAN VNIs.
Spine 1:
set vlans VNI_10000 vlan-id 100
set vlans VNI_10000 l3-interface irb.100
set vlans VNI_10000 vxlan vni 10000
set vlans VNI_20000 vlan-id 200
set vlans VNI_20000 l3-interface irb.200
set vlans VNI_20000 vxlan vni 20000
set vlans VNI_30000 vlan-id 300
set vlans VNI_30000 l3-interface irb.300
set vlans VNI_30000 vxlan vni 30000
set vlans VNI_40000 vlan-id 400
set vlans VNI_40000 l3-interface irb.400
set vlans VNI_40000 vxlan vni 40000

180
8. Configure a routing instance named VRF 1, and map IRB interfaces irb.100 (VNI 10000) and irb.200
(VNI 20000) to this instance.
NOTE: Because the irb.300 (VNI 30000) and irb.400 (VNI 40000) interfaces are not
configured inside a routing instance, they are part of the default switching instance for
the spine devices. The end result of your configuration should match the diagram
shown in Figure 45 on page 177.
Spine 1:
set routing-instances VRF_1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_1 interface irb.100
set routing-instances VRF_1 interface irb.200
set routing-instances VRF_1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF_1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:100
set routing-instances VRF_1 vrf-target target:62273:10000
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Spine Device
Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your spine devices:
1. Verify the IRB interfaces are operational for both IPv4 and IPv6.
user@spine-1> show interfaces terse irb
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb up up
irb.100 up up inet 10.1.0.1/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:0:1/112
fe80::10:1:0:254/112
irb.200 up up inet 10.1.1.1/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:1:1/112
fe80::10:1:1:254/112
irb.300 up up inet 10.1.2.1/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:2:1/112
fe80::10:1:2:254/112
irb.400 up up inet 10.1.3.1/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:3:1/112
fe80::10:1:3:254/112

181
2. Verify that the VTEP interfaces are up.
user@spine-1> show interfaces terse vtep
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
vtep up up
vtep.32768 up up
vtep.32769 up up eth-switch
vtep.32770 up up eth-switch
vtep.32771 up up eth-switch
vtep.32772 up up eth-switch
...
vtep.32804 up up eth-switch
---(more)---
user@spine-1> show interfaces terse vtep | match eth-switch | count
Count: 109 lines
3. Verify the endpoint destination IP address for the VTEP interfaces. The spine devices display their
VTEPs as loopback addresses in the range of 192.168.0.x (1 - 4) and the leaf devices display their
VTEPs as loopback addresses in the range of 192.168.1.x (1 - 96).
user@spine-1> show interfaces vtep
Physical interface: vtep, Enabled, Physical link is Up
Interface index: 240, SNMP ifIndex: 504
Type: Software-Pseudo, Link-level type: VxLAN-Tunnel-Endpoint, MTU: Unlimited, Speed:
Unlimited
Device flags : Present Running
Link type : Full-Duplex
Link flags : None
Last flapped : Never
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32768 (Index 670) (SNMP ifIndex 505)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.0.1, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
...

182
Logical interface vtep.32771 (Index 802) (SNMP ifIndex 536)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.4, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 1979
Output packets: 9867
Protocol eth-switch, MTU: Unlimited
---(more)---
4. Verify that the spine device has all the routes to the leaf devices.
user@spine-2> show route 192.168.1.1
inet.0: 446 destinations, 19761 routes (446 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
192.168.1.1/32 *[BGP/170] 00:06:29, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000011 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.5 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 00:06:22, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000023 4200000004 4200000011 I, validation-state:
unverified
> to 172.16.13.5 via ae13.0
...
[BGP/170] 00:06:18, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000032 4200000004 4200000011 I, validation-state:
unverified
> to 172.16.22.5 via ae22.0
---(more)---
5. Verify that each end system resolves the virtual gateway MAC address for a subnet using the
gateway IRB address on the central gateways (spine devices).
user@spine-1> show arp no-resolve vpn VRF_1
MAC Address Address Interface Flags
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 10.1.0.2 irb.100 [vtep.32796] none ## Spine 2 IRB interface
06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 10.1.0.3 irb.100 [vtep.32878] none ## Spine 3 IRB interface
06:38:e1:6f:30:29 10.1.0.4 irb.100 [vtep.32821] none ## Spine 4 IRB
interface02:0c:10:01:02:01 10.1.0.201 irb.100 [.local..11] none ## End system
behind the QFX5100s

183
02:0c:10:01:02:02 10.1.0.202 irb.100 [.local..11] none ## End system behind the
QFX5110s
02:0c:10:01:02:03 10.1.0.203 irb.100 [.local..11] none ## End system behind the
QFX5200s
02:0c:10:01:02:04 10.1.0.204 irb.100 [.local..11] none ## End system behind the
QFX10002s
00:00:5e:00:01:01 10.1.0.254 irb.100 permanent published gateway
## Virtual gateway IP and MAC
address
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 10.1.1.2 irb.200 [vtep.32796] none
06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 10.1.1.3 irb.200 [vtep.32878] none
06:38:e1:6f:30:29 10.1.1.4 irb.200 [vtep.32821] none
0e:ad:10:02:00:01 10.1.1.101 irb.200 [vtep.32776] none
user@spine-1> show ipv6 neighbors
IPv6 Address Linklayer Address State Exp Rtr Secure Interface
2001:db8::10:1:0:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 325 no no irb.100
[vtep.32796]
2001:db8::10:1:0:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 514 yes no irb.100
[vtep.32878]
2001:db8::10:1:0:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 326 no no irb.100
[vtep.32821]
2001:db8::10:1:0:201 02:0c:10:01:02:01 stale 1114 no no irb.100
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:0:202 02:0c:10:01:02:02 stale 443 no no irb.100
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:0:203 02:0c:10:01:02:03 stale 853 no no irb.100
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:0:204 02:0c:10:01:02:04 stale 1181 no no irb.100
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:0:254 00:00:5e:00:02:01 reachable 0 no no irb.100
2001:db8::10:1:1:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 325 no no irb.200
[vtep.32796]
2001:db8::10:1:1:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 514 yes no irb.200
[vtep.32878]
2001:db8::10:1:1:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 326 no no irb.200
[vtep.32821]
2001:db8::10:1:1:201 02:0c:10:02:02:01 stale 1121 no no irb.200
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:1:202 02:0c:10:02:02:02 stale 423 no no irb.200
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:1:203 02:0c:10:02:02:03 stale 1081 no no irb.200
[.local..11]

184
2001:db8::10:1:1:204 02:0c:10:02:02:04 stale 1167 no no irb.200
[.local..11]
6. Verify the switching table for VNI 10000 to see entries for end systems and the other spine devices.
user@spine-1> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 100
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 105 entries, 105 learned
Routing instance : default-switch
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
VNI_10000 00:00:5e:00:01:01 DR esi.2453
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:27:10:00
## Entries for the spine devices
VNI_10000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32796
192.168.0.2
VNI_10000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32878
192.168.0.3
VNI_10000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32821
192.168.0.4
## The next four MAC addresses belong to the end systems
connected to Leaf 1 - 3 (QFX5100), Leaf 4-6 (QFX5110), Leaf 7-9 (QFX5200),
and Leaf 10-12 (QFX10002).
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:01 DR esi.2443
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:02 DR esi.2497
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.2427
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:04 DR esi.2610
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
...
VNI_10000 0e:ad:10:01:00:02 D vtep.32814 192.168.1.96

185
7. Verify MAC address and ARP information learned from the leaf devices over the control plane.
user@spine-1> show evpn database mac-address 02:0c:10:01:02:01 extensive
Instance: default-switch
VN Identifier: 10000, MAC address:: 02:0c:10:01:02:01
Source: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Remote origin: 192.168.1.2 ## Leaf 2 and Leaf 3 advertised this route
Remote origin: 192.168.1.3
Timestamp: Jul 13 23:35:37 (0x59686639)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
IP address: 10.1.0.201 ## MAC Address + IP
Flags: <Proxy>
Remote origin: 192.168.1.2
Remote origin: 192.168.1.3
IP address: 2001:db8::10:1:0:201 ## MAC Address + IPv6
Remote origin: 192.168.1.2
Remote origin: 192.168.1.3 History db:
Time Event
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Applying remote state to peer 192.168.1.2
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Remote peer 192.168.1.2 updated
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 MAC+IP not updated, source l2ald is not owner (type2)
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Updated
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 No change to MAC state
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Applying remote state to peer 192.168.1.3
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Remote peer 192.168.1.3 updated
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 MAC+IP not updated, source l2ald is not owner (type2)
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 Updated
Jul 13 23:35:38 2017 No change to MAC state
8. Verify the remote VXLAN tunnel end points.
user@spine-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx
<default> 0 192.168.0.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.1.1 827 2444
VNID MC-Group-IP
10000 0.0.0.0
20000 0.0.0.0
30000 0.0.0.0
40000 0.0.0.0

186
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
...
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.1.96 812 2428
VNID MC-Group-IP
10000 0.0.0.0
20000 0.0.0.0
30000 0.0.0.0
40000 0.0.0.0
9. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnel.
user@spine-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote mac-table
MAC flags (S -static MAC, D -dynamic MAC, L -locally learned, C -Control MAC
SE -Statistics enabled, NM -Non configured MAC, R -Remote PE MAC, P -Pinned MAC)
Logical system : <default>
Routing instance : default-switch
Bridging domain : VNI_10000+100, VLAN : 100, VNID : 10000
MAC MAC Logical Remote VTEP
address flags interface IP address
02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.2427 192.168.1.8 192.168.1.7 192.168.1.9
02:0c:10:01:02:01 DR esi.2443 192.168.1.2 192.168.1.3
## This next entry shows that the virtual gateway MAC address
of 00:00:5e:00:01:01 has been learned by
the other spine devices.
00:00:5e:00:01:01 DR esi.2453 192.168.0.3 192.168.0.4 192.168.0.2
02:0c:10:01:02:02 DR esi.2497 192.168.1.6 192.168.1.4
02:0c:10:01:02:04 DR esi.2610 192.168.1.12 192.168.1.10 192.168.1.11
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32796 192.168.0.2
---(more)---
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance on the Leaf Device
To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in the default switching instance on a leaf device, perform the
following:
NOTE:

187
• The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 1, as shown in Figure 46 on
page 187.
Figure 46: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance – Leaf Device
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf device,
see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
3. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation, and specify the VTEP source interface (in
this case, the loopback interface of the leaf device).

188
Leaf 1:
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
4. Define an EVPN route target and route distinguisher, and use the auto option to derive route targets
automatically. Setting these parameters specifies how the routes are imported and exported. The
import and export of routes from a routing or bridging table is the basis for dynamic overlays. In this
case, members of the global BGP community with a route target of target:64512:1111 participate in
the exchange of EVPN-VXLAN information.
Leaf 1:
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.1:1
set switch-options vrf-target target:64512:1111
set switch-options vrf-target auto
5. Configure ESI settings on all similar leaf devices. Because the end systems in this reference design are
multihomed to three leaf devices per device type cluster (such as QFX5100), you must configure the
same ESI identifier and LACP system identifier on all three leaf devices for each unique end system.
Unlike other topologies where you would configure a different LACP system identifier per leaf device
and have VXLAN select a single designated forwarder, use the same LACP system identifier to allow
the 3 leaf devices to appear as a single LAG to a multihomed end system. In addition, use the same
aggregated Ethernet interface number for all ports included in the ESI.
The configuration for Leaf 1 is shown below, but you must replicate this configuration on both Leaf 2
and Leaf 3 per the topology shown in Figure 47 on page 189.
TIP: When you create an ESI number, always set the high order octet to 00 to indicate
the ESI is manually created. The other 9 octets can be any hexadecimal value from 00 to
FF.

189
Figure 47: ESI Topology for Leaf 1, Leaf 2, and Leaf 3
Leaf 1:
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:51:00:00:01
set interfaces xe-0/0/10 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces xe-1/0/10 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
6. Configure VLANs and map them to VNIs. This step enables the VLANs to participate in VNIs across
the EVPN-VXLAN domain.
Leaf 1:
set vlans VNI_10000 vlan-id 100
set vlans VNI_10000 vxlan vni 10000
set vlans VNI_20000 vlan-id 200
set vlans VNI_20000 vxlan vni 20000
set vlans VNI_30000 vlan-id 300
set vlans VNI_30000 vxlan vni 30000
set vlans VNI_40000 vlan-id 400
set vlans VNI_40000 vxlan vni 40000

190
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance for the Leaf Device
Issue the following commands to verify that the overlay is working properly on your leaf devices:
1. Verify the interfaces are operational.
user@leaf-1> show interfaces terse | match ae.*
xe-0/0/10.0 up up aenet --> ae11.0
et-0/0/48.0 up up aenet --> ae1.0
et-0/0/49.0 up up aenet --> ae2.0
et-0/0/50.0 up up aenet --> ae3.0
et-0/0/51.0 up up aenet --> ae4.0
xe-1/0/10.0 up up aenet --> ae11.0
et-1/0/48.0 up up aenet --> ae1.0
et-1/0/49.0 up up aenet --> ae2.0
et-1/0/50.0 up up aenet --> ae3.0
et-1/0/51.0 up up aenet --> ae4.0
ae1 up up ## To Spine 1
ae1.0 up up inet 172.16.1.1/30
ae2 up up ## To Spine 2
ae2.0 up up inet 172.16.1.5/30
ae3 up up ## To Spine 3
ae3.0 up up inet 172.16.1.9/30
ae4 up up ## To Spine 4
ae4.0 up up inet 172.16.1.13/30
ae11 up up ## To End System
ae11.0 up up eth-switch
user@leaf-1> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/48 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/48 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-1/0/48 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-1/0/48 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/48 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-1/0/48 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
...
Aggregated interface: ae11
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity

191
xe-0/0/10 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/10 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-1/0/10 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-1/0/10 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/10 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-1/0/10 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
2. Verify that the EVPN routes are being learned through the overlay.
NOTE:
• Only selected excerpts of this output are displayed.
• The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:route-distinguisher:vni:mac-
address.
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 10000
bgp.evpn.0: 828 destinations, 3169 routes (827 active, 0 holddown, 4 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
## Spine 1: Virtual Gateway MAC Address for IPv4
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::00:00:5e:00:01:01/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 1: Virtual Gateway MAC Address for IPv6
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::00:00:5e:00:02:01/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2

192
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 1: IRB MAC Address
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 1: ARP for the virtual gateway
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::00:00:5e:00:01:01::10.1.0.254/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 1: IRB IPv4 ARP
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0::10.1.0.1/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 00:04:50, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 00:04:50, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified

193
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 00:04:50, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 00:04:50, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 2: ARP for the virtual gateway
2:192.168.0.2:1::10000::00:00:5e:00:01:01::10.1.0.254/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 07:55:22, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:11, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
## Spine 2: IRB IPv4 ARP
2:192.168.0.2:1::10000::06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8::10.1.0.2/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 07:55:22, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:11, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.6 via ae2.0
## Spine 1: IPv6 ARP for the virtual gateway
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::00:00:5e:00:02:01::2001:db8::10:1:0:254/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0

194
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
## Spine 1: IRB IPv6 ARP
2:192.168.0.1:1::10000::06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0::2001:db8::10:1:0:1/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 09:12:00, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:33:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:31:15, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
[BGP/170] 07:29:41, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.2 via ae1.0
...
3. Verify on Leaf 1 and Leaf 3 that the Ethernet switching table has installed both the local MAC
addresses and the remote MAC addresses learned through the overlay.
NOTE: To identify end systems learned remotely from the EVPN overlay, look for
the MAC address, ESI logical interface, and ESI number. For example, Leaf 1 learns
about an end system with the MAC address of 02:0c:10:03:02:02 through esi.1885. This
end system has an ESI number of 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01. Consequently, this
matches the ESI number configured for Leaf 4, 5, and 6 (QFX5110 switches), so we
know that this end system is multihomed to these three leaf devices.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 300
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb
MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 10 entries, 10 learned

195
Routing instance : default-switch
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
VNI_30000 00:00:5e:00:01:01 DR esi.1679
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:75:30:00
VNI_30000 00:00:5e:00:02:01 DR esi.1679
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:75:30:00
VNI_30000 06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0 D vtep.32770
192.168.0.1
VNI_30000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32783
192.168.0.2
VNI_30000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32769
192.168.0.3
VNI_30000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32879
192.168.0.4
## Learned locally
VNI_30000 02:0c:10:03:02:01 DL ae11.0
## Learned from the QFX5110 switches - Leaf 4 to 6
VNI_30000 02:0c:10:03:02:02 DR esi.1885
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
## Learned from the QFX5200 switches - Leaf 7 to 9
VNI_30000 02:0c:10:03:02:03 DR esi.1887
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
## Learned from the QFX10002 switches - Leaf 10 to 12
VNI_30000 02:0c:10:03:02:04 DR esi.1892
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
## IPv4 virtual gateway MAC address learned over the overlay
and distributed to the leaf devices by Spine 1, 2, 3 and 4
00:00:5e:00:01:01
# IPv6 virtual gateway MAC address learned over Overlay
00:00:5e:00:02:01
## IRB MAC address prefix for Spine 1, 2, and 3 (Physical
MAC address)
06:4b:*
## End System MAC address, connected locally to the leaf
device
02:0c:10:03:02:01
## MAC address learned over the overlay, these end systems
are also multihomed
02:0c:10:03:02:02,03,04
user@leaf-3> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 100
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static

196
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb
MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 106 entries, 106 learned
Routing instance : default-switch
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
## 00:00:5e:00:01:01 is the virtual gateway MAC address
for the spine devices and is reachable over the dynamically created
logical link esi.1679. As a result, you can use this ESI number to
filter future command output by using esi.1679 to find the virtual
gateway.
VNI_10000 00:00:5e:00:01:01 DR esi.1769
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:27:10:00
VNI_10000 00:00:5e:00:02:01 DR esi.1769
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:27:10:00
VNI_10000 06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0 D vtep.32781
192.168.0.1
VNI_10000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32782
192.168.0.2
VNI_10000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32775
192.168.0.3
## Learned locally
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:01 DL ae11.0
## Learned through the overlay
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:02 DR esi.1760
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.1782
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:04 DR esi.1758
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
VNI_10000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32783
192.168.0.4
VNI_10000 0e:ad:10:01:00:01 D vtep.32821 192.168.1.85
4. Verify on Leaf 1 that the virtual gateway ESI (esi.1679) is reachable by all the spine devices.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.1679
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:75:30:00 default-switch 1679 131072 esi.1679

197
4
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.0.4 vtep.32879 1890 3 2
192.168.0.2 vtep.32783 1795 2 2
192.168.0.1 vtep.32770 1682 1 2
192.168.0.3 vtep.32769 1764 0 2
5. Verify the remote EVPN routes coming from VNI 10000 and MAC address 02:0c:10:01:02:02. In
this case, they are coming from Leaf 4 (192.168.1.4) by way of Spine 1 (192.168.0.1).
NOTE: The format of the EVPN routes is EVPN-route-type:route-
distinguisher:vni:mac-address.
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 10000 evpn-mac-address
02:0c:10:01:02:02
bgp.evpn.0: 910 destinations, 3497 routes (904 active, 0 holddown, 24 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2:192.168.1.4:1::10000::02:0c:10:01:02:02/304 MAC/IP
*[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
[BGP/170] 00:11:37, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.1.10 via ae3.0
user@leaf-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 evpn-ethernet-tag-id 10000 evpn-mac-address
02:0c:10:01:02:02 detail
bgp.evpn.0: 925 destinations, 3557 routes (919 active, 0 holddown, 24 hidden)
2:192.168.1.4:1::10000::02:0c:10:01:02:02/304 MAC/IP (4 entries, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.4:1
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0xb3a2170

198
Next-hop reference count: 160
Source: 192.168.0.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.1.4
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <Active Int Ext>
Local AS: 4210000001 Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 13:42 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001.192.168.0.1
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.0.10
Originator ID: 192.168.1.4
Communities: target:62273:268445456 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Route Label: 10000
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.0.1
Secondary Tables: default-switch.evpn.0
...
## This output has been abbreviated. In a full set of output,
there should also be routes sourced by Spine 2 (192.168.0.2), Spine
3 (192.168.0.3), and Spine 4 (192.168.0.4).
6. Verify the source and destination address of each VTEP interface and view their status.
NOTE: There are 96 leaf devices and four spine devices, so there are 100 VTEP
interfaces in this reference design - one VTEP interface per device.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx
<default> 0 192.168.1.1 lo0.0 0
L2-RTT Bridge Domain VNID MC-Group-IP
default-switch VNI_10000+100 10000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_20000+200 20000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_30000+300 30000 0.0.0.0
default-switch VNI_40000+400 40000 0.0.0.0
user@leaf-1> show interfaces terse vtep
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
vtep up up
vtep.32768 up up

199
vtep.32769 up up eth-switch
vtep.32770 up up eth-switch
vtep.32771 up up eth-switch
vtep.32772 up up eth-switch
...
vtep.32869 up up eth-switch
user@leaf-1> show interfaces vtep
Physical interface: vtep, Enabled, Physical link is Up
Interface index: 646, SNMP ifIndex: 503
Type: Software-Pseudo, Link-level type: VxLAN-Tunnel-Endpoint, MTU: Unlimited, Speed:
Unlimited
Device flags : Present Running
Link type : Full-Duplex
Link flags : None
Last flapped : Never
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
Logical interface vtep.32768 (Index 554) (SNMP ifIndex 648)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4000 Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Source, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.1, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 0
... Logical interface vtep.32814 (Index 613) (SNMP ifIndex 903)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps Encapsulation: ENET2
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.96, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
Input packets : 0
Output packets: 6364
Protocol eth-switch, MTU: Unlimited
Flags: Trunk-Mode
7. Verify that each VNI maps to the associated VXLAN tunnel.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote
0 192.168.1.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.0.1 587 1792
VNID MC-Group-IP

200
10000 0.0.0.0
20000 0.0.0.0
30000 0.0.0.0
40000 0.0.0.0
...
RVTEP-IP IFL-Idx NH-Id
192.168.1.96 613 1820
VNID MC-Group-IP
10000 0.0.0.0
20000 0.0.0.0
30000 0.0.0.0
40000 0.0.0.0
8. Verify that MAC addresses are learned through the VXLAN tunnels.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote mac-table
MAC flags (S -static MAC, D -dynamic MAC, L -locally learned, C -Control MAC
SE -Statistics enabled, NM -Non configured MAC, R -Remote PE MAC, P -Pinned MAC)
Logical system : <default>
Routing instance : default-switch
Bridging domain : VNI_10000+100, VLAN : 100, VNID : 10000
MAC MAC Logical Remote VTEP
address flags interface IP address
02:0c:10:01:02:04 DR esi.1764 192.168.1.11 192.168.1.12 192.168.1.10
02:0c:10:01:02:02 DR esi.1771 192.168.1.6 192.168.1.4
02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.1774 192.168.1.7
00:00:5e:00:01:01 DR esi.1781 192.168.0.4 192.168.0.2 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.3
06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32779 192.168.0.3
06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0 D vtep.32781 192.168.0.1
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32782 192.168.0.2
06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32783 192.168.0.4
---(more)---
9. Verify multihoming information of the gateway and the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi
## Local AE link – QFX5100 leaf devices

201
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01 default-switch 1768 131078 esi.1768 ae11.0,
2
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.2 vtep.32780 1782 1 2
192.168.1.3 vtep.32772 1767 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX5110 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01 default-switch 1771 131081 esi.1771
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.6 vtep.32771 1766 2 2
192.168.1.4 vtep.32770 1765 1 2
192.168.1.5 vtep.32774 1770 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX5200 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01 default-switch 1774 131084 esi.1774
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.9 vtep.32778 1776 2 2
192.168.1.8 vtep.32777 1775 1 2
192.168.1.7 vtep.32776 1773 0 2
## Remote AE Link for QFX10002 leaf devices
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01 default-switch 1764 131074 esi.1764
3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.11 vtep.32775 1772 2 2
192.168.1.12 vtep.32773 1769 1 2
192.168.1.10 vtep.32769 1759 0 2
## ESI multihoming to the VTEP for each segment
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:27:10:00 default-switch 1781 131091 esi.1781
4
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.0.4 vtep.32783 1796 3 2
192.168.0.2 vtep.32782 1793 2 2
192.168.0.1 vtep.32781 1792 1 2

202
192.168.0.3 vtep.32779 1777 0 2
...
10. Verify that the VXLAN tunnel from one leaf to another leaf is load balanced with equal cost
multipathing (ECMP) over the underlay.
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive | find vtep.32770
Destination: vtep.32770
Route type: interface
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 576
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1765 Reference: 12
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 131076 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 131193 Reference: 238
Nexthop: 172.16.1.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1791 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1794 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1758 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1795 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0
11. Verify that remote MAC addresses are reachable through ECMP.
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive destination
02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Routing table: default-switch.evpn-vxlan [Index 4]
Bridging domain: VNI_10000.evpn-vxlan [Index 3]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,
Destination: 02:0c:10:01:02:03/48

203
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 582
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 169 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x400000000000000003000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1773 Reference: 12
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 131085 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 131193 Reference: 238
Nexthop: 172.16.1.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1791 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1794 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1758 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.1.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1795 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0
NOTE: Though the MAC address is reachable over multiple VTEP interfaces,
QFX5100, QFX5110, QFX5120-32C, and QFX5200 switches do not support ECMP
across the overlay because of a merchant ASIC limitation. Only the QFX10000 line
of switches contain a custom Juniper Networks ASIC that supports ECMP across
both the overlay and the underlay.
user@leaf-1> show ethernet-switching table vlan-id 100 | match 02:0c:10:01:02:03
VNI_10000 02:0c:10:01:02:03 DR esi.1774
00:00:00:00:00:00:52:00:00:01
user@leaf-1> show route forwarding-table table default-switch extensive destination
02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Routing table: default-switch.evpn-vxlan [Index 9]
Bridging domain: VNI_10000.evpn-vxlan [Index 3]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,

204
Destination: 02:0c:10:01:02:03/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 550
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 0 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x400000000000000001000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn, esi
Flags: sent to PFE
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097173 Reference: 5
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1947 Reference: 2
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 1948 Reference: 8
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097174 Reference: 3
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 2097280 Reference: 241
Nexthop: 172.16.10.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1950 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae1.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1956 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae2.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1861 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae3.0 Weight: 0x0
Nexthop: 172.16.10.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1960 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0 Weight: 0x0
12. Verify which device is the Designated Forwarder (DF) for broadcast, unknown, and multicast (BUM)
traffic coming from the VTEP tunnel.
NOTE: Because the DF IP address is listed as 192.168.1.2, Leaf 2 is the DF.
user@leaf-1> show evpn instance esi 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01 designated-forwarder
Instance: default-switch
Number of ethernet segments: 12
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:00:00:01
Designated forwarder: 192.168.1.2

205
SEE ALSO
Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN
EVPN Overview
Understanding VXLANs
Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation
Configuring EVPN Routing Instances
Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches
Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-
VRF Instances
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Spine
Device | 207
Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a
Spine Device | 211
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf
Device | 218
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances on a Leaf
Device | 222
You can configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay model using virtual switches or MAC-VRF instances. With
either of these models, you can configure multiple switching instances where each switching instance
can support up to 4094 VLANs per instance.
The configuration method for VLANs (at the leaf devices) and IRB interfaces (at the spine devices) is
similar to the default instance method for VLAN-aware CRB overlays. The main difference is that you
configure certain elements inside the virtual switching instances or MAC-VRF instances. See Figure 48
on page 206.

206
Figure 48: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay — Virtual Switch Instance or MAC-VRF Instance
When you implement this style of overlay on a spine device, you:
• Configure a virtual switch or MAC-VRF instance with:
• The loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.
• Route distinguishers and route targets.
• EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation.
• VLAN to VNI mappings and Layer 3 IRB interface associations.
• Configure virtual gateways, virtual MAC addresses, and corresponding IRB interfaces (to provide
routing between VLANs).
To implement this overlay style on a leaf device:
• Configure a virtual switch or a MAC-VRF instance with:
• The loopback interface as the VTEP source interface.

207
• Route distinguishers and route targets.
• EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation.
• VLAN to VNI mappings.
• Set the following end system-facing elements:
• An Ethernet segment ID (ESI).
• Flexible VLAN tagging and extended VLAN bridge encapsulation.
• LACP settings.
• VLAN IDs.
For an overview of VLAN-aware CRB overlays, see the Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay section in
"Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
For information on MAC-VRF instances, see "MAC-VRF Instances for Multitenancy in Network
Virtualization Overlays" on page 24 and MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview.
NOTE:
• For a simpler method that works on all leaf platforms used in this reference design,
see "Configuring a VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay in the Default Instance" on page 173
The following sections provide the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the VLAN-aware CRB
overlay with virtual switches or MAC-VRF instances.
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF
Instances on a Spine Device
To configure a VLAN-aware style of CRB overlay on a spine device, perform the following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure
49 on page 208.

208
Figure 49: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or a MAC-VRF Instance – Spine Device
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on spine devices, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine
devices, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
3. (QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches only) On any QFX5130 or QFX5700 switches in the fabric that
you configure with EVPN-VXLAN, set the host-profile unified forwarding profile option to support
EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
4. Configure a virtual switch instance (VS1) or a MAC-VRF instance (MAC-VRF-1) for a VLAN-aware
service. With the VLAN-aware service type, you can configure the instance with one or more VLANs.
Include VTEP information, VXLAN encapsulation, VLAN to VNI mapping, associated IRB interfaces,
and other instance details (such as a route distinguisher and a route target) as part of the
configuration.

209
For a virtual switch instance, use instance-type virtual-switch. Using the VLAN-aware model, configure
VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000 in the virtual switch instance with the associated IRB
interfaces.
Spine 1 (Virtual Switch Instance):
set routing-instances VS1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances VS1 instance-type virtual-switch
set routing-instances VS1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:900
set routing-instances VS1 vrf-target target:62273:90000
set routing-instances VS1 vrf-target auto
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_90000 vlan-id none
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_90000 l3-interface irb.900
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_90000 vxlan vni 90000
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_100000 vlan-id none
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_100000 l3-interface irb.1000
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_100000 vxlan vni 100000
With MAC-VRF instances, use instance-type mac-vrf. You also configure the service type when you
create the MAC-VRF instance. Here we configure service-type vlan-aware with the two VLANs
VNI_90000 and VNI_100000 and their associated IRB interfaces in the MAC-VRF instance.
Spine 1 (MAC-VRF Instance):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:900
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target target:62273:90000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target auto
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_90000 vlan-id none
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_90000 l3-interface irb.900
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_90000 vxlan vni 90000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_100000 vlan-id none

210
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_100000 l3-interface irb.1000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_100000 vxlan vni 100000
5. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on the device.
A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF
instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on
the QFX5000 line of switches with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the
shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs.
The following statement globally enables shared VXLAN tunnels on the device:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels
This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches, which can handle higher VTEP scaling
than QFX5000 switches.
NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.
6. Configure spine devices with one or more VLANs for the VLAN-aware method. Include settings for
the IPv4 and IPv6 virtual gateways and virtual MAC addresses. This example shows the configuration
for Spine 1 with IRB interfaces and virtual gateways for VLANs VNI_90000 and VNI_100000.
Spine 1:
set interfaces irb unit 900 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 900 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 900 family inet address 10.1.8.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.8.254
set interfaces irb unit 900 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:8:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:8:254
set interfaces irb unit 900 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:8:1/112
set interfaces irb unit 900 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 600
set interfaces irb unit 900 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:90:00:00
set interfaces irb unit 900 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:90:00:00
set interfaces irb unit 1000 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 1000 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1000 family inet address 10.1.9.1/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.1.9.254
set interfaces irb unit 1000 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:9:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:9:254
set interfaces irb unit 1000 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:9:1/112
set interfaces irb unit 1000 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 600

211
set interfaces irb unit 1000 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:a0:00:00
set interfaces irb unit 1000 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:a0:00:00
Verifying the VLAN-Aware Model for a CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-
VRF Instances on a Spine Device
To verify this style of overlay on a spine device, run the commands in this section.
Most commands here show output for a virtual switch instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF
instance configuration, you can alternatively use:
• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this
section.
• The show mac-vrf routing database command, which is an alias for the show evpn database command in this
section.
• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this
section.
See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernet-
switching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands.
Otherwise, you can use the commands in this section for either virtual switch instances or MAC-VRF
instances.
The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing
instances as this section shows for virtual switch instances. One main difference you might see is in the
output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared
tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format:
vtep-index.shared-tunnel-unit
where:
• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.
• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical
interface.

212
For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two
remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:
vtep-26.32823
vtep-26.32824
1. Verify the IRB interfaces for VNIs 90000 and 100000 are operational for both IPv4 and IPv6.
user@spine-1> show interfaces terse irb | find irb\.900
irb.900 up up inet 10.1.8.1/24
10.1.8.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:8:1/112
2001:db8::10:1:8:254/112
fe80::10:1:8:1/112
irb.1000 up up inet 10.1.9.1/24
10.1.9.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:1:9:1/112
2001:db8::10:1:9:254/112
fe80::10:1:9:1/112
2. (MAC-VRF instances only) Verify the VLANs you configured as part of the MAC-VRF instance.
user@spine-1> show mac-vrf forwarding instance MAC-VRF-1
Information for routing instance and VLAN:
Flags (DL - disable learning, SE - stats enabled,
AD - packet action drop, LH - MAC limit hit,
MI - mac+ip limit hit)
Inst Logical Routing VLAN name Index IRB Flags Tag
type system instance index
RTT Default MAC-VRF-1 26
vlan Default MAC-VRF-1 VNI-90000 3403 4204 900
vlan Default MAC-VRF-1 VNI-100000 3425 4203 1000
.
.
.
user@spine-1> show vlans VNI-90000
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MAC-VRF-1 VNI-90000 NA

213
esi.105902*
esi.89032*
vtep-26.32823*
vtep-26.32824*
vtep-26.32827*
3. Verify switching details about the EVPN routing instance. This output includes information about the
route distinguisher (192.168.1.10:900), VXLAN encapsulation, ESI (00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02),
verification of the VXLAN tunnels for VLANs 900 and 1000, EVPN neighbors (Spine 2 - 4, and Leaf
10 - 12), and the source VTEP IP address (192.168.0.1).
user@spine-1> show evpn instance VS1 extensive
Instance: VS1
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.1:900
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 2 14
MAC+IP advertisements: 14 26
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 4 0
Number of local interfaces: 0 (0 up)
Number of IRB interfaces: 2 (2 up)
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
irb.1000 100000 Up master
irb.900 90000 Up master
Number of bridge domains: 2
VLAN Domain ID Intfs / up IRB intf Mode MAC sync IM route label SG
sync IM core nexthop
8191 90000 0 0 irb.900 Extended Enabled 90000
Disabled
8191 100000 0 0 irb.1000 Extended Enabled 100000
Disabled
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label
192.168.0.2 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.0.3 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.0.4 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.1.10 1 2 2 2 0
192.168.1.11 0 0 2 2 0
192.168.1.12 1 2 2 2 0
Number of ethernet segments: 3
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02
Status: Resolved

214
Number of remote PEs connected: 3
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.1.12 90000 0 all-active
192.168.1.11 90000 0 all-active
192.168.1.10 100000 0 all-active
ESI: 05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:5f:90:00
Local interface: irb.900, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 3
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.0.3 90000 0 all-active
192.168.0.2 90000 0 all-active
192.168.0.4 90000 0 all-active
ESI: 05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:86:a0:00
Local interface: irb.1000, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 3
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.0.3 100000 0 all-active
192.168.0.2 100000 0 all-active
192.168.0.4 100000 0 all-active
Router-ID: 192.168.0.1
Source VTEP interface IP: 192.168.0.1
4. Verify the MAC address table on the leaf device.
NOTE:
• 00:00:5e:90:00:00 and 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 are the IP subnet gateways on the spine
device.
• 02:0c:10:09:02:01 and 02:0c:10:08:02:01 are end systems connected through the
leaf device.
user@spine-1> show ethernet-switching table instance VS1
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 5 entries, 5 learned
Routing instance : VS1
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source

215
VNI_100000 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 DR esi.2454
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:86:a0:00
VNI_100000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32773
192.168.0.2
VNI_100000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32787
192.168.0.3
VNI_100000 02:0c:10:09:02:01 DR esi.2467
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02
VNI_100000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32796
192.168.0.4
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 5 entries, 5 learned
Routing instance : VS1
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
VNI_90000 00:00:5e:90:00:00 DR esi.2455
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:5f:90:00
VNI_90000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32773
192.168.0.2
VNI_90000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32787
192.168.0.3
VNI_90000 02:0c:10:08:02:01 DR esi.2467
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02
VNI_90000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32796 192.168.0.4
5. Verify the end system MAC address is reachable from all three leaf devices.
user@spine-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.2467
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02 VS1 2467 2097182 esi.2467 3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.10 vtep.32789 2522 2 2
192.168.1.11 vtep.32782 2475 1 2
192.168.1.12 vtep.32779 2466 0 2
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs

216
6. Verify the end system is reachable through the forwarding table.
user@spine-1> show route forwarding-table table VS1 destination 02:0c:10:09:02:01/48 extensive
Routing table: VS1.evpn-vxlan [Index 11]
Bridging domain: VNI_100000.evpn-vxlan [Index 9]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,
Destination: 02:0c:10:09:02:01/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 676
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 0 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x400000000000000006000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn, esi
Flags: sent to PFE
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097182 Reference: 3
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2467 Reference: 2
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2522 Reference: 6
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097154 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.10.1
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2172 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae10.0
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2475 Reference: 6
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097193 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.11.1
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2194 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae11.0
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2466 Reference: 6
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097195 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.12.1
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2916 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae12.0

217
7. Verify end system information (MAC address, IP address, etc.) has been added to the IPv4 ARP table
and IPv6 neighbor table.
user@spine-1> show arp no-resolve expiration-time | match "irb.900|irb.1000"
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 10.1.8.2 irb.900 [vtep.32773] none 1035
06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 10.1.8.3 irb.900 [vtep.32787] none 1064
06:38:e1:6f:30:29 10.1.8.4 irb.900 [vtep.32796] none 964
02:0c:10:08:02:01 10.1.8.201 irb.900 [.local..11] none 781
06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 10.1.9.2 irb.1000 [vtep.32773] none 910
06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 10.1.9.3 irb.1000 [vtep.32787] none 1344
06:38:e1:6f:30:29 10.1.9.4 irb.1000 [vtep.32796] none 1160
02:0c:10:09:02:01 10.1.9.201 irb.1000 [.local..11] none 1099
user@spine-1> show ipv6 neighbors | match "irb.900|irb.1000"
2001:db8::10:1:8:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 969 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32773]
2001:db8::10:1:8:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 1001 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32787]
2001:db8::10:1:8:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 971 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32796]
2001:db8::10:1:8:201 02:0c:10:08:02:01 stale 1178 no no irb.900
[.local..11]
2001:db8::10:1:9:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 955 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32773]
2001:db8::10:1:9:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 1006 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32787]
2001:db8::10:1:9:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 990 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32796]
2001:db8::10:1:9:201 02:0c:10:09:02:01 stale 1199 no no irb.1000
[.local..11]
fe80::10:1:8:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 991 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32773]
fe80::10:1:8:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 989 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32787]
fe80::10:1:8:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 966 yes no irb.900
[vtep.32796]
fe80::10:1:9:2 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 stale 978 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32773]
fe80::10:1:9:3 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 stale 994 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32787]
fe80::10:1:9:4 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 stale 1006 yes no irb.1000
[vtep.32796]

218
8. Verify that the EVPN database contains the MAC address (02:0c:10:08:02:01) and ARP information
learned from an end system connected to the leaf device.
user@spine-1> show evpn database mac-address 02:0c:10:08:02:01 extensive
Instance: VS1
VN Identifier: 90000, MAC address:: 02:0c:10:08:02:01
Source: 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Remote origin: 192.168.1.10
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
Remote origin: 192.168.1.12
Timestamp: Sep 10 23:47:37 (0x59b63189)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
IP address: 10.1.8.201
Flags: <Proxy>
Remote origin: 192.168.1.10
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
Remote origin: 192.168.1.12
IP address: 2001:db8::10:1:8:201
Remote origin: 192.168.1.10
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
Remote origin: 192.168.1.12 History db:
Time Event
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Applying remote state to peer 192.168.1.11
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Remote peer 192.168.1.11 updated
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 MAC+IP not updated, source l2ald is not owner (type2)
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Updated
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 No change to MAC state
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Applying remote state to peer 192.168.1.12
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Remote peer 192.168.1.12 updated
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 MAC+IP not updated, source l2ald is not owner (type2)
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 Updated
Sep 10 23:47:39 2017 No change to MAC state
Configuring the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF
Instances on a Leaf Device
To configure a VLAN-aware CRB overlay in a virtual switch or a MAC-VRF instance on a leaf device,
perform the following:

219
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure
50 on page 219.
Figure 50: VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances – Leaf Device
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on leaf devices, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf devices,
see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
3. Configure a virtual switch instance (VS1) or a MAC-VRF instance (MAC-VRF-1) to enable EVPN-
VXLAN. Also, map VLANs 900 and 1000 to VNIs 90000 and 100000 in the instance.
For a virtual switch instance, use instance-type virtual-switch.

220
Leaf 10 (Virtual Switch Instance):
set routing-instances VS1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances VS1 instance-type virtual-switch
set routing-instances VS1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:900
set routing-instances VS1 vrf-target target:62273:90000
set routing-instances VS1 vrf-target auto
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances VS1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_90000 interface ae12.900
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_90000 vxlan vni 90000
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_100000 interface ae12.1000
set routing-instances VS1 vlans VNI_100000 vxlan vni 100000
With MAC-VRF instances, use instance-type mac-vrf. You also configure the service type when you
create the MAC-VRF instance. Here we configure service-type vlan-aware with the two VLANs
VNI_90000 and VNI_100000, and their VNI mappings.
Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:900
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target target:62273:90000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target auto
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_90000 interface ae12.900
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_90000 vxlan vni 90000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_100000 interface ae12.1000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_100000 vxlan vni 100000
4. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on the device.
A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF
instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on
the QFX5000 line of switches with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When you configure the

221
shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs.
The following statement globally enables shared VXLAN tunnels on the device:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels
This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches, which can handle higher VTEP scaling
than QFX5000 switches.
NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.
5. Configure the leaf device to communicate with the end system. In this example, configure an
aggregated Ethernet interface on Leaf 10—in this case, ae12 with two member interfaces. With the
interface definition, include LACP options, an ESI in all-active mode, and VLANs 900 and 1000
(which this example uses for the VLAN-aware service type). Figure 51 on page 221 illustrates the
topology.
Figure 51: ESI Topology for Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12
Leaf 10:
set interfaces ae12 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae12 encapsulation extended-vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae12 esi 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02
set interfaces ae12 esi all-active
set interfaces ae12 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1

222
set interfaces ae12 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae12 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae12 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:01:00:00:00:02
set interfaces ae12 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 300
set interfaces ae12 unit 900 vlan-id 900
set interfaces ae12 unit 1000 vlan-id 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/23 ether-options 802.3ad ae12
set interfaces et-0/0/35 ether-options 802.3ad ae12
Note that in this example, you configure the aggregated Ethernet interface to support the service
provider configuration style. See Flexible Ethernet Service Encapsulation for more information on the
service provider style configuration for switch interfaces.
Verifying the VLAN-Aware CRB Overlay with Virtual Switches or MAC-VRF Instances
on a Leaf Device
To verify this style of overlay on a leaf device, run the commands in this section.
Most commands here show output for a virtual switch instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF
instance configuration, you can alternatively use:
• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this
section.
• The show mac-vrf routing instance command, which is an alias for the show evpn instance command in this
section.
See MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview for tables of show mac-vrf forwarding and show ethernet-
switching command mappings, and show mac-vrf routing command aliases for show evpn commands.
Otherwise, you can use the commands in this section for either virtual switch instances or MAC-VRF
instances.
The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing
instances as this section shows for virtual switch instances. One main difference you might see is in the
output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared
tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format:
vtep-index.shared-tunnel-unit
where:
• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.

223
• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical
interface.
For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two
remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:
vtep-26.32823
vtep-26.32824
1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interface is operational on the leaf device.
user@leaf-10> show interfaces terse ae12
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
ae12 up up
ae12.900 up up eth-switch
ae12.1000 up up eth-switch
ae12.32767 up up
2. (MAC-VRF instances only) Verify the VLANs you configured as part of the MAC-VRF instance.
user@leaf-10> show mac-vrf forwarding instance MAC-VRF-1
Information for routing instance and VLAN:
Flags (DL - disable learning, SE - stats enabled,
AD - packet action drop, LH - MAC limit hit,
MI - mac+ip limit hit)
Inst Logical Routing VLAN name Index IRB Flags Tag
type system instance index
RTT Default MAC-VRF-1 27
vlan Default MAC-VRF-1 VNI-90000 3424 NA
vlan Default MAC-VRF-1 VNI-100000 3425 NA
.
.
.
user@leaf-10> show vlans VNI-90000
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MAC-VRF-1 VNI-90000 NA
ae12.900*
esi.19955*

224
esi.20938*
vtep-27.32820*
vtep-27.32821*
vtep-27.32822*
xe-0/0/18:2.900*
3. Verify switching details about the EVPN routing instance. This output includes information about the
route distinguisher (192.168.1.10:900), VXLAN encapsulation, ESI (00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02),
verification of the VXLAN tunnels for VLANs 900 and 1000, EVPN neighbors (Spine 1 - 4, and Leaf
11 and 12), and the source VTEP IP address (192.168.1.10).
user@leaf-10> show evpn instance VS1 extensive
Instance: VS1
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.10:900
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 0 20
MAC+IP advertisements: 0 32
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 0 0
Number of local interfaces: 2 (2 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
ae12.1000 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02 all-active Up Root
ae12.900 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02 all-active Up Root
Number of IRB interfaces: 0 (0 up)
Number of bridge domains: 2
VLAN Domain ID Intfs / up IRB intf Mode MAC sync IM route label SG
sync IM core nexthop
None 90000 1 1 Extended Enabled 90000
Disabled
None 100000 1 1 Extended Enabled 100000
Disabled
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label
192.168.0.1 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.0.2 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.0.3 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.0.4 4 10 2 2 0
192.168.1.11 2 4 2 2 0
192.168.1.12 2 4 2 2 0
Number of ethernet segments: 3
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:02
Status: Resolved by IFL ae12.900

225
Local interface: ae12.1000, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 2
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.1.12 100000 0 all-active
192.168.1.11 90000 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.1.10
Backup forwarder: 192.168.1.11
Backup forwarder: 192.168.1.12
Last designated forwarder update: Sep 10 23:22:07
ESI: 05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:5f:90:00
Status: Resolved
Number of remote PEs connected: 4
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.0.1 90000 0 all-active
192.168.0.3 90000 0 all-active
192.168.0.2 90000 0 all-active
192.168.0.4 90000 0 all-active
ESI: 05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:86:a0:00
Status: Resolved
Number of remote PEs connected: 4
Remote PE MAC label Aliasing label Mode
192.168.0.1 100000 0 all-active
192.168.0.3 100000 0 all-active
192.168.0.2 100000 0 all-active
192.168.0.4 100000 0 all-active
Router-ID: 192.168.1.10
Source VTEP interface IP: 192.168.1.10
4. View the MAC address table on the leaf device to confirm that spine device and end system MAC
addresses appear in the table.
NOTE:
• 00:00:5e:90:00:00 and 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 are the IP subnet gateways on the spine
device.
• 02:0c:10:09:02:01 and 02:0c:10:08:02:01 are end systems connected through the
leaf device.
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching table instance VS1

226
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 6 entries, 6 learned
Routing instance : VS1
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
VNI_100000 00:00:5e:a0:00:00 DR esi.2139
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:86:a0:00
VNI_100000 06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0 D vtep.32799
192.168.0.1
VNI_100000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32798
192.168.0.2
VNI_100000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32804
192.168.0.3
VNI_100000 02:0c:10:09:02:01 DR ae12.1000
VNI_100000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32807
192.168.0.4
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 6 entries, 6 learned
Routing instance : VS1
Vlan MAC MAC Logical Active
name address flags interface source
VNI_90000 00:00:5e:90:00:00 DR esi.2144
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:5f:90:00
VNI_90000 06:4b:8c:67:0f:f0 D vtep.32799
192.168.0.1
VNI_90000 06:4b:8c:cd:13:f8 D vtep.32798
192.168.0.2
VNI_90000 06:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 D vtep.32804
192.168.0.3
VNI_90000 02:0c:10:08:02:01 DR ae12.900
VNI_90000 06:38:e1:6f:30:29 D vtep.32807 192.168.0.4

227
5. Verify that the IP subnet gateway ESIs discovered in Step 3 (esi.2144 for VNI 90000 and esi.2139 for
VNI 100000) are reachable from all four spine devices.
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.2144
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:5f:90:00 VS1 2144 2097224 esi.2144 4
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.0.4 vtep.32807 2033 3 2
192.168.0.2 vtep.32798 2092 2 2
192.168.0.3 vtep.32804 2174 1 2
192.168.0.1 vtep.32799 2093 0 2
ESI RTT VLNBH INH ESI-IFL LOC-IFL
#RVTEPs
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.2139
05:19:17:f3:41:00:01:86:a0:00 VS1 2139 2097221 esi.2139 4
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.0.4 vtep.32807 2033 3 2
192.168.0.2 vtep.32798 2092 2 2
192.168.0.3 vtep.32804 2174 1 2
192.168.0.1 vtep.32799 2093 0 2
6. Verify the IP subnet gateway on the spine device (00:00:5e:a0:00:00) is reachable through the
forwarding table.
user@leaf-10> show route forwarding-table table VS1 destination 00:00:5e:a0:00:00/48 extensive
Routing table: VS1.evpn-vxlan [Index 10]
Bridging domain: VNI_100000.evpn-vxlan [Index 15]
VPLS:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, ACKed by all peers, EVPN VXLAN,
Destination: 00:00:5e:a0:00:00/48
Learn VLAN: 0 Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 571
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
IFL generation: 0 Epoch: 0
Sequence Number: 0 Learn Mask: 0x40000000000000000f000000000000000000000
L2 Flags: control_dyn, esi
Flags: sent to PFE
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097221 Reference: 2
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2139 Reference: 2
Nexthop:

228
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2033 Reference: 9
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097223 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.10.14
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2106 Reference: 10
Next-hop interface: ae4.0
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2092 Reference: 9
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097172 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.10.6
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 1951 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae2.0
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2174 Reference: 9
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097174 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.10.10
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2143 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae3.0
Nexthop:
Next-hop type: composite Index: 2093 Reference: 9
Next-hop type: indirect Index: 2097165 Reference: 5
Nexthop: 172.16.10.2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 2153 Reference: 11
Next-hop interface: ae1.0
SEE ALSO
Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN
EVPN Overview
Understanding VXLANs
Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation
Configuring EVPN Routing Instances
MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview
Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches

229
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History
Table 6 on page 229 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 6: CRB Overlay in the Data Center Fabric Reference Design– Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
17.3R3-S2 Adds support for Contrail Enterprise Multicloud, where you can configure CRB overlays from the
Contrail Command GUI.
17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section
Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End System
Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN Multihoming with VLAN
Trunking | 230
Enabling Storm Control | 234
Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History | 235
For an overview of multihoming an Ethernet-connected end system in this reference design, see the
Multihoming Support for Ethernet-Connected End Systems section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint
Architecture Components" on page 9.
Figure 52 on page 230 illustrates the multihomed Ethernet-connected end system in this procedure:

230
Figure 52: Ethernet-Connected Multihoming Example Overview
Configuring a Multihomed Ethernet-Connected End System using EVPN
Multihoming with VLAN Trunking
EVPN multihoming is used in this building block to connect an Ethernet-connected end system into the
overlay network. EVPN multihoming works by treating two or more physical multihomed links as a
single Ethernet segment identified by an EVPN Ethernet Segment ID (ESI). The set of physical links
belonging to the same Ethernet segment are treated as one aggregated Ethernet interface. The member
links—much like member links in a traditional aggregated Ethernet interface—provide redundant paths to
and from the end system while also ensuring overlay network traffic is load-balanced across the multiple
paths.
LACP with the fast timer mode is used to improve fault detection and disablement of impaired members
of an Ethernet segment. MicroBFD may also be used to further improve fault isolation but may not scale
to support all end-system facing ports. Furthermore, support for microBFD must exist at the end system.
The reference design tested an Ethernet-connected server was connected to a single leaf or multihomed
to 2 or 3 leaf devices to verify that traffic can be properly handled in multihomed setups with more than
2 leaf devices; in practice, an Ethernet-connected server can be multihomed to a large number of leaf
devices.
To configure a multihomed Ethernet-connected server:
1. (Aggregated Ethernet interfaces only) Create the aggregated Ethernet interfaces to connect each leaf
device to the server. Enable LACP with a fast period interval for each aggregated Ethernet interface.

231
Leaf 10:
set interfaces et-0/0/13 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
Leaf 11:
set interfaces et-0/0/13 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
Leaf 12:
set interfaces et-0/0/13 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae11
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
NOTE: The three leaf devices in this step use the same aggregated Ethernet interface
name—ae11—and member link interfaces—et-0/0/13 and et-0/0/14— to organize and
simplify network administration.
Avoid using different AE names at each VTEP for the same ESI as this will require
configuring the LACP admin-key so that the end system can identify the multihomed
links as part of the same LAG.
2. Configure each interface into a trunk interface. Assign VLANs to each trunk interface.
NOTE: If you are connecting your end system to the leaf device with a single link,
replace the interface name—for example, ae11—with a physical interface name—for
example, et-0/0/13—for the remainder of this procedure.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 100

232
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 200
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 300
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 400
Leaf 11:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 100
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 200
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 300
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 400
Leaf 12:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 100
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 200
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 300
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 400
3. Configure the multihomed links with an ESI.
Assign each multihomed interface into the ethernet segment—which is identified using the Ethernet
Segment Identifier (ESI)—that is hosting the Ethernet-connected server. Ensure traffic is passed over
all multihomed links by configuring each link as all-active.
The ESI values must match on all multihomed interfaces.
Leaf 10 :
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active
Leaf 11:
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active

233
Leaf 12:
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active
4. Enable LACP and configure a system identifier.
The LACP system identifier must match on all multihomed interfaces.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:01:00:00:00:01
Leaf 11:
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:01:00:00:00:01
Leaf 12:
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:01:00:00:00:01
5. After committing the configuration, verify that the links on each leaf switch are in the Up state
Example:
user@leaf10# run show interfaces terse ae11
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
ae11 up up
ae11.0 up up eth-switch
6. Verify that LACP is operational on the multihomed links.
user@leaf10# run show lacp interfaces ae11
Aggregated interface: ae11
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/13 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/13 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/14 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/14 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State

234
et-0/0/13 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/14 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Enabling Storm Control
Storm control can be enabled as part of this building block. Storm control is used to prevent BUM traffic
storms by monitoring BUM traffic levels and taking a specified action to limit BUM traffic forwarding
when a specified traffic level—called the storm control level—is exceeded. See Understanding Storm
Control for additional information on the feature.
In this reference design, storm control is enabled on server-facing aggregated Ethernet interfaces to rate
limit broadcast, unknown unicast, and multicast (BUM) traffic. If the amount of BUM traffic exceeds 1%
of the available bandwidth on the aggregated Ethernet interface, storm control drops BUM traffic to
prevent broadcast storms.
To enable storm control:
1. Create the storm control profile that will be used to enable the feature. The interfaces that are
configured using the storm control profile are specified in this step.
Leaf Device:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching storm-control STORM-CONTROL
2. Set the storm control configuration within the profile.
In this reference design, storm control is configured to strategically drop BUM traffic when the
amount of BUM traffic exceeds 1% of all available interface bandwidth.
set forwarding-options storm-control-profiles STORM-CONTROL all bandwidth-percentage 1
NOTE: Dropping BUM traffic is the only supported storm control action in the Cloud
Data Center architecture.
NOTE: The storm control settings in this version of the reference design drop multicast
traffic that exceeds the configured storm control threshold. If your network supports
multicast-based applications, consider using a storm control configuration—such as the

235
no-multicast option in the storm-control-profiles statement—that is not represented in this
reference design.
Storm control settings in support of multicast-based applications will be included in a
future version of this reference design.
3. To verify storm control activity, filter system log messages related to storm control by entering the
show log messages | match storm command.
user@leaf10> show log messages | match storm
Sep 27 11:35:34 leaf1-qfx5100 l2ald[1923]: L2ALD_ST_CTL_IN_EFFECT: ae11.0: storm control in
effect on the port
Multihoming a Ethernet-Connected End System—Release History
Table 7 on page 235 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 7: Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train
support all features documented in this section.
17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
EVPN Multihoming Overview

236
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 239
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device | 241
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 241
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device | 250
Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices | 257
Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device | 264
A second overlay option for this reference design is the edge-routed bridging overlay, as shown in Figure
53 on page 237.

237
Figure 53: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
The edge-routed bridging overlay performs routing at IRB interfaces located at the edge of the overlay
(most often at the leaf devices). As a result, Ethernet bridging and IP routing happen as close to the end
systems as possible, but still support Ethernet dependent applications at the end system level.
You can configure edge-routed bridging overlay architectures using the traditional IPv4 EBGP underlay
with IPv4 IBGP overlay, peering, or alternatively (with supported platforms) use an IPv6 EBGP underlay
with IPv6 EBGP overlay peering. The configuration procedures in this section describe the configuration
differences, where applicable, with an IPv6 Fabric instead of an IPv4 Fabric.
For a list of devices that we support as lean spine and leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay,
see the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page
51. That list includes which devices support an IPv6 Fabric when serving in different device roles.

238
Lean spine devices handle only IP traffic, which removes the need to extend the bridging overlay to the
lean spine devices. With this limited role, on these devices you configure only the IP fabric underlay and
BGP overlay peering (either an IPv4 Fabric or an IPv6 Fabric).
On the leaf devices, you can configure an edge-routed bridging overlay using the default switch instance
or using MAC-VRF instances.
NOTE: Keep the following in mind when you configure an ERB overlay for an EVPN-
VXLAN network:
• On any Junos OS Evolved devices, we support EVPN-VXLAN configurations with
MAC-VRF instances only.
• We support the IPv6 Fabric infrastructure design with MAC-VRF instances only.
• On the QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches in the EVPN fabric, make sure you
configure the host-profile unified forwarding profile to support an EVPN-VXLAN
environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
Some configuration steps that affect the Layer 2 configuration differ with MAC-VRF instances. Likewise,
a few steps differ for IPv6 Fabric configurations. The leaf device configuration includes the following
steps:
• Configure the default instance with the loopback interface as a VTEP source interface. Or if your
configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, configure a MAC-VRF instance with the loopback interface
as a VTEP source interface. If your fabric uses an IPv6 Fabric, you configure the VTEP source
interface as an IPv6 interface. In each MAC-VRF instance, you also configure a service type, a route
distinguisher, and a route target.
• Configure a leaf-to-end system aggregated Ethernet interface as a trunk to carry multiple VLANs.
With MAC-VRF instances, you also include the interface in the MAC-VRF instance.
• Establish LACP and ESI functionality.
• Map VLANs to VXLAN network identifiers (VNIs). For a MAC-VRF instance configuration, you
configure the VLAN to VNI mappings in the MAC-VRF instance.
• Configure proxy-macip-advertisement, virtual gateways, and static MAC addresses on the IRB
interfaces.
• Configure EVPN/VXLAN in the default instance or in the MAC-VRF instance.

239
• Enable Layer 3 (L3) tenant virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances and IP prefix route
properties for EVPN Type 5.
• Optionally enable symmetric IRB routing with EVPN Type 2 routes on the leaf devices. Symmetric
Type 2 routing avoids scaling issue when your EVPN network has many VLANs and many attached
hosts or servers. With symmetric Type 2 routing, on each leaf device you only need to configure the
VLANs that leaf devices serves. We support symmetric Type 2 routing only with MAC-VRF EVPN
instances.
For an overview of edge-routed bridging overlays, see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay" on page 19 in
"Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
For more information about MAC-VRF instances and using them in an example customer use case with
an edge-routed bridging overlay, see EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC-VRF L2 Services.
The following sections show the steps to configure and verify the edge-routed bridging overlay:
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device
To enable the edge-routed bridging overlay on a lean spine device, perform the following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure
54 on page 240.

240
Figure 54: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay – Lean Spine Devices
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a spine
device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and
Implementation with EBGP" on page 114 instead. Those instructions include how to configure the
IPv6 underlay connectivity with EBGP and IPv6 overlay peering.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine device,
see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
If you are using an IPv6 Fabric, you don’t need this step. Step 1 also covers how to configure the
EBGP IPv6 overlay peering that corresponds to the IPv6 underlay connectivity configuration.

241
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Lean Spine Device
To verify that IBGP is functional on a lean spine device, use the show bgp summary command as described in
"Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. In the output that displays, ensure that the state of the
lean spine device and its peers is Establ (established).
Use the same command if you have an IPv6 Fabric. In the output, look for the IPv6 addresses of the peer
device interconnecting interfaces (for underlay EBGP peering) or peer device loopback addresses (for
overlay EBGP peering). Ensure that the state is Establ (established).
Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device
To enable the edge-routed bridging overlay on a leaf device, perform the following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure
55 on page 242.

242
Figure 55: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay – Leaf Devices
1. Configure the fabric underlay and overlay:
For an IP Fabric underlay using IPv4:
• Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To configure an IP fabric on a leaf device, see "IP Fabric
Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
• Confirm that your IBGP overlay peering is up and running. To configure IBGP overlay peering on
your leaf device, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
For an IPv6 fabric underlay with EBGP IPv6 overlay peering:
• Ensure the IPv6 underlay is in place and the EBGP overlay peering is up and running. To
configure an IPv6 Fabric, see "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and
Implementation with EBGP" on page 114.

243
2. Configure the loopback interface as a VTEP source interface.
If your configuration uses the default instance, you use statements at the [edit switch-options]
hierarchy level, as follows:
Leaf 10 (Default Instance):
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:1
set switch-options vrf-target target:64512:1111
set switch-options vrf-target auto
If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, define a routing instance of type mac-vrf, and
configure these statements at that MAC-VRF routing instance hierarchy level. You also must
configure a service type for the MAC-VRF instance. We use the vlan-aware service type here so you
can associate multiple VLANs with the MAC-VRF instance. This setting is consistent with the
alternative configuration that uses the default instance.
Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:1
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target target:64512:1111
If you have an IPv6 Fabric (supported only with MAC-VRF instances), in this step you include the
inet6 option when you configure the VTEP source interface to use the device loopback address.
This option enables IPv6 VXLAN tunneling in the fabric. This is the only difference in the MAC-VRF
configuration with an IPv6 Fabric as compared to the MAC-VRF configuration with an IPv4 Fabric.
Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance with an IPv6 Fabric):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0 inet6
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:1
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vrf-target target:64512:1111
3. (MAC-VRF instances only) Enable shared tunnels on devices in the QFX5000 line running Junos
OS.

244
A device can have problems with VTEP scaling when the configuration uses multiple MAC-VRF
instances. As a result, to avoid this problem, we require that you enable the shared tunnels feature
on the QFX5000 line of switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. When
you configure the shared-tunnels option, the device minimizes the number of next-hop entries to
reach remote VTEPs. This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos
OS because those devices can handle higher VTEP scaling than QFX5000 switches. You also don’t
need to configure this option on devices running Junos OS Evolved, where shared tunnels are
enabled by default.
Include the following statement to globally enable shared VXLAN tunnels on the device:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels
NOTE: This setting requires you to reboot the device.
4. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on
all interfaces) on the device:
set forwarding-options tunnel-termination
5. Configure the leaf-to-end system aggregated Ethernet interface as a trunk carrying four VLANs.
Include the appropriate ESI and LACP values for your topology.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces ae11 esi 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 esi all-active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae11 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_50000
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_60000
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_70000
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_80000
NOTE: When configuring ESI-LAGs on the QFX5000 line of switches that serve as
leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay, keep in mind that we currently

245
support only the Enterprise style of interface configuration, which is shown in this
step.
If your configuration uses MAC-VRF instances, you must also add the configured aggregated
Ethernet interface to the MAC-VRF instance:
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 interface ae11.0
6. Configure the mapping of VLANs to VNIs and associate one IRB interface per VLAN.
This step shows the VLAN to VNI mapping and IRB interface association either in the default
instance or in a MAC-VRF instance configuration.
Leaf 10 (Default Instance):
set vlans VNI_50000 vlan-id 500
set vlans VNI_50000 l3-interface irb.500
set vlans VNI_50000 vxlan vni 50000
set vlans VNI_60000 vlan-id 600
set vlans VNI_60000 l3-interface irb.600
set vlans VNI_60000 vxlan vni 60000
set vlans VNI_70000 vlan-id 700
set vlans VNI_70000 l3-interface irb.700
set vlans VNI_70000 vxlan vni 70000
set vlans VNI_80000 vlan-id 800
set vlans VNI_80000 l3-interface irb.800
set vlans VNI_80000 vxlan vni 80000
Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):
The only difference with a MAC-VRF instance configuration is that you configure these statements
in the MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level.
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_50000 vlan-id 500
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_50000 l3-interface irb.500
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_50000 vxlan vni 50000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_60000 vlan-id 600
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_60000 l3-interface irb.600
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_60000 vxlan vni 60000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_70000 vlan-id 700
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_70000 l3-interface irb.700
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_70000 vxlan vni 70000

246
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_80000 vlan-id 800
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_80000 l3-interface irb.800
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_80000 vxlan vni 80000
7. Configure the IRB interfaces for VNIs 50000 and 60000 with both IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack
addresses for both the IRB IP address and virtual gateway IP address.
There are two methods for configuring gateways for IRB interfaces:
• Method 1: Unique IRB IP Address with Virtual Gateway IP Address, which is shown in Step 7.
• Method 2: IRB with Anycast IP Address and MAC Address, which is shown in Step 8.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces irb unit 500 family inet address 10.1.4.1/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.1.4.254
set interfaces irb unit 500 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:4:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:4:254
set interfaces irb unit 500 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:4::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:4::254
set interfaces irb unit 600 family inet address 10.1.5.1/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.1.5.254
set interfaces irb unit 600 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:5:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:5:254
set interfaces irb unit 600 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:5::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:5::254
set interfaces irb unit 500 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 500 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 600 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 600 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
8. Configure the IRB interfaces for VNIs 70000 and 80000 with a dual stack Anycast IP address.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces irb unit 700 family inet address 10.1.6.254/24
set interfaces irb unit 700 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:6:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 700 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:6:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 700 mac 0a:fe:00:00:00:01
set interfaces irb unit 800 family inet address 10.1.7.254/24
set interfaces irb unit 800 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:7:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 800 family inet6 address fe80::10:1:7:254/112
set interfaces irb unit 800 mac 0a:fe:00:00:00:02

247
For more information about IRB and virtual gateway IP address configuration, see the IRB
Addressing Models in Bridging Overlays section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture
Components" on page 9.
9. Enable the ping operation for IRB interfaces 500 and 600, which are configured in Step 6.
set interfaces irb unit 500 family inet address 10.1.4.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 500 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:4:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 500 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 600 family inet address 10.1.5.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 600 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:5:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 600 virtual-gateway-accept-data
10. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation on the leaf device.
This step shows how to configure either the default instance or a MAC-VRF instance.
Leaf 10 (Default Instance):
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
Leaf 10 (MAC-VRF Instance):
The only difference with a MAC-VRF configuration is that you configure these statements in the
MAC-VRF instance at the [edit routing-instances mac-vrf-instance-name] hierarchy level.
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
11. Configure a policy called EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES to match on and accept /32 and /128 host
routes, direct routes, and static routes. You will use this policy in step 13.
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 from route-filter
0.0.0.0/0 prefix-length-range /32-/32
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_2 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_2 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_3 from protocol static
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_3 then accept

248
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from family inet6
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from route-filter 0::0/0
prefix-length-range /128-/128
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 then accept
12. Configure the loopback interface with two logical interfaces. (You will assign one logical interface to
each VRF routing instance in the next step).
set interfaces lo0 unit 3 family inet
set interfaces lo0 unit 4 family inet
13. Configure two tenant VRF routing instances, one for VNIs 50000 and 60000 (VRF 3), and one for
VNIs 70000 and 80000 (VRF 4). Assign one logical interface from the loopback to each routing
instance so that the VXLAN gateway can resolve ARP requests. Configure IP prefix route properties
for EVPN Type 5 to advertise ARP routes to the spine devices. Enable load balancing for L3 VPNs
(set the multipath option).
Leaf 10:
set routing-instances VRF_3 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_3 interface irb.500
set routing-instances VRF_3 interface irb.600
set routing-instances VRF_3 interface lo0.3
set routing-instances VRF_3 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:500
set routing-instances VRF_3 vrf-target target:62273:50000
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 16777214
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES
set routing-instances VRF-3 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-3 routing-options rib VRF-3.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF_4 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_4 interface irb.700
set routing-instances VRF_4 interface irb.800
set routing-instances VRF_4 interface lo0.4
set routing-instances VRF_4 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:600
set routing-instances VRF_4 vrf-target target:62273:60000
set routing-instances VRF_4 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_4 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_4 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 16777105
set routing-instances VRF_4 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES

249
set routing-instances VRF_4 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF_4 routing-options rib VRF_4.inet6.0 multipath
14. (Required on ACX7100 routers only) Set the reject-asymmetric-vni option in the VRF routing
instances where you enable Type 5 IP prefix routes. This option configures the device to reject
EVPN Type 5 route advertisements with asymmetric VNIs—the device doesn’t accept traffic from
the control plane with a received VNI that doesn’t match the locally configured VNI. We support
only symmetric VNI routes on these devices.
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes reject-asymmetric-vni
set routing-instances VRF_4 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes reject-asymmetric-vni
15. Set up dummy IPv4 and IPv6 static routes for each tenant VRF instance, which enable the device to
advertise at least one EVPN Type 5 route for the VRF. We include this step because all devices with
Type 5 routes configured must advertise at least one route for forwarding to work. The device must
receive at least one EVPN Type 5 route from a peer device and install an IP forwarding route in the
Packet Forwarding Engine. Otherwise, the device doesn’t install the next hop required to de-
encapsulate the received traffic and doesn’t forward the traffic.
Leaf 10:
set routing-instances VRF_3 routing-options static route 10.10.20.30/32 discard
set routing-instances VRF-3 routing-options rib VRF-3.inet6.0 static route
2001:db8::101:1:1:1/128 discard
set routing-instances VRF_4 routing-options static route 10.10.20.30/32 discard
set routing-instances VRF-4 routing-options rib VRF-4.inet6.0 static route
2001:db8::101:1:1:1/128 discard
16. If you are configuring a QFX5110, QFX5120-48Y, or QFX5120-32C switch, you must perform this
step to support pure EVPN Type 5 routes on ingress EVPN traffic.
set routing-options forwarding-table chained-composite-next-hop ingress evpn
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing overlay-ecmp
NOTE: Entering the overlay-ecmp statement causes the Packet Forwarding Engine
to restart, which interrupts forwarding operations. We recommend using this
configuration statement before the EVPN-VXLAN network becomes operational.
17. If you are configuring a QFX5110, QFX5120-48Y, or QFX5120-32C switch, and you expect that
there will be more than 8000 ARP table entries and IPv6 neighbor entries, perform this step.

250
Configure the maximum number of next hops reserved for use in the EVPN-VXLAN overlay
network. By default, the switch allocates 8000 next hops for use in the overlay network. See next-
hop for more details.
NOTE: Changing the number of next hops causes the Packet Forwarding Engine to
restart, which interrupts forwarding operations. We recommend using this
configuration statement before the EVPN-VXLAN network becomes operational.
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 12288
Verify the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device
To verify that the edge-routed bridging overlay is working, run the following commands.
The commands here show output for a default instance configuration. With a MAC-VRF instance
configuration, you can alternatively use:
• show mac-vrf forwarding commands that are aliases for the show ethernet-switching commands in this
section.
• The show mac-vrf routing database command, which is an alias for the show evpn database command in this
section.
The output with a MAC-VRF instance configuration displays similar information for MAC-VRF routing
instances as this section shows for the default instance. One main difference you might see is in the
output with MAC-VRF instances on devices where you enable the shared tunnels feature. With shared
tunnels enabled, you see VTEP interfaces in the following format:
vtep-index.shared-tunnel-unit
where:
• index is the index associated with the MAC-VRF routing instance.
• shared-tunnel-unit is the unit number associated with the shared tunnel remote VTEP logical
interface.

251
For example, if a device has a MAC-VRF instance with index 26 and the instance connects to two
remote VTEPs, the shared tunnel VTEP logical interfaces might look like this:
vtep-26.32823
vtep-26.32824
If your configuration uses an IPv6 Fabric, you provide IPv6 address parameters where applicable. Output
from the commands that display IP addresses reflect the IPv6 device and interface addresses from the
underlying fabric. See "IPv6 Fabric Underlay and Overlay Network Design and Implementation with
EBGP" on page 114 for the fabric parameters reflected in command outputs in this section with an IPv6
Fabric.
1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interface is operational.
user@leaf-10> show interfaces terse ae11
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
ae11 up up
ae11.0 up up eth-switch
2. Verify the VLAN information (associated ESIs, VTEPs, etc.).
user@leaf-10> show vlans
default-switch VNI_50000 500
ae11.0*
esi.7585*
esi.7587*
esi.8133*
et-0/0/16.0
vtep.32782*
vtep.32785*
vtep.32802*
vtep.32806*
vtep.32826*
...
default-switch VNI_80000 800
ae11.0*
esi.7585*
esi.8133*
et-0/0/16.0

252
vtep.32782*
vtep.32785*
vtep.32802*
vtep.32806*
vtep.32826*
Note: esi.7585 is the ESI of the remote aggregated Ethernet link for Leaf 4, Leaf 5, and Leaf 6.
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.7585
00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01 default-switch 7585 2097663 esi.7585 3
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.5 vtep.32826 8169 2 2
192.168.1.6 vtep.32782 7570 1 2
192.168.1.4 vtep.32785 7575 0 2
Note: esi.7587 is the ESI for all leaf devices that have the same VNI number (Leaf 4, Leaf 5, Leaf 6,
Leaf 11, and Leaf 12).
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.7587
05:19:17:f3:41:00:00:c3:50:00 default-switch 7587 2097665 esi.7587 5
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.5 vtep.32826 8169 4 2
192.168.1.6 vtep.32782 7570 3 2
192.168.1.12 vtep.32802 8127 2 2
192.168.1.11 vtep.32806 8131 1 2
192.168.1.4 vtep.32785 7575 0 2
Note: esi.8133 is the ESI for the local aggregated Ethernet interface shared with Leaf 11 and Leaf 12.
user@leaf-10> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point esi | find esi.8133
00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01 default-switch 8133 2098194 esi.8133 ae11.0, 2
RVTEP-IP RVTEP-IFL VENH MASK-ID FLAGS
192.168.1.12 vtep.32802 8127 1 2
192.168.1.11 vtep.32806 8131 0 2
3. Verify the ARP table.

253
Note: 10.1.4.201 and 10.1.5.201 are remote end systems connected to the QFX5110 switches; and
10.1.4.202 and 10.1.5.202 are local end systems connected to Leaf 10 through interface ae11.
user@leaf-10> show arp no-resolve vpn VRF_3
MAC Address Address Interface Flags
06:a7:39:9a:7b:c0 10.1.4.4 irb.500 [vtep.32785] none
06:a7:39:f8:b1:00 10.1.4.5 irb.500 [vtep.32826] none
06:e0:f3:1b:09:80 10.1.4.6 irb.500 [vtep.32782] none
02:0c:10:04:02:01 10.1.4.201 irb.500 [.local..9] none
02:0c:10:04:02:02 10.1.4.202 irb.500 [ae11.0] none
00:00:5e:00:00:04 10.1.4.254 irb.500 permanent published gateway
06:a7:39:9a:7b:c0 10.1.5.4 irb.600 [vtep.32785] none
06:a7:39:f8:b1:00 10.1.5.5 irb.600 [vtep.32826] none
06:e0:f3:1b:09:80 10.1.5.6 irb.600 [vtep.32782] none
02:0c:10:05:02:01 10.1.5.201 irb.600 [.local..9] none
02:0c:10:05:02:02 10.1.5.202 irb.600 [ae11.0] none
00:00:5e:00:00:04 10.1.5.254 irb.600 permanent published gateway
Total entries: 12
user@leaf-10> show arp no-resolve vpn VRF_4
MAC Address Address Interface Flags
02:0c:10:06:02:01 10.1.6.201 irb.700 [.local..9] permanent remote
02:0c:10:06:02:02 10.1.6.202 irb.700 [ae11.0] none
02:0c:10:07:02:01 10.1.7.201 irb.800 [.local..9] permanent remote
02:0c:10:07:02:02 10.1.7.202 irb.800 [ae11.0] permanent remote
Total entries: 4
user@leaf-10> show ipv6 neighbors
IPv6 Address Linklayer Address State Exp Rtr Secure Interface
2001:db8::10:1:4:2 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e stale 523 yes no irb.500
[vtep.32806]
2001:db8::10:1:4:3 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e stale 578 yes no irb.500
[vtep.32802]
2001:db8::10:1:4:201 02:0c:10:04:02:01 stale 1122 no no irb.500
[.local..9]
2001:db8::10:1:4:202 02:0c:10:04:02:02 stale 1028 no no irb.500 [ae11.0]
2001:db8::10:1:4:254 00:00:5e:00:00:04 reachable 0 no no irb.500
2001:db8::10:1:5:2 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e stale 521 yes no irb.600
[vtep.32806]
2001:db8::10:1:5:3 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e stale 547 yes no irb.600
[vtep.32802]
2001:db8::10:1:5:201 02:0c:10:05:02:01 stale 508 no no irb.600
[.local..9]
2001:db8::10:1:5:202 02:0c:10:05:02:02 stale 1065 no no irb.600 [ae11.0]

254
2001:db8::10:1:5:254 00:00:5e:00:00:04 reachable 0 no no irb.600
2001:db8::10:1:6:202 02:0c:10:06:02:02 reachable 0 no no irb.700 [ae11.0]
2001:db8::10:1:7:201 02:0c:10:07:02:01 stale 647 no no irb.800
[.local..9]
4. Verify the MAC addresses and ARP information in the EVPN database.
For example, with an IPv4 Fabric:
user@leaf-10> show evpn database mac-address 02:0c:10:04:02:01 extensive
Instance: default-switch
VN Identifier: 50000, MAC address:: 02:0c:10:04:02:01
Source: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5
Timestamp: Oct 10 16:09:54 (0x59dd5342)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
IP address: 10.1.4.201
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5
IP address: 2001:db8::10:1:4:201
Flags: <Proxy>
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5 History db:
Time Event
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local state present)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x0)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local source present)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 IP host route cannot be created (No remote host route for non-
MPLS instance)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x4000 <IP-Peer-Added>)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Creating MAC+IP advertisement route for proxy
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Creating MAC+IP advertisement route for proxy
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 IP host route cannot be created (No remote host route for non-
MPLS instance)
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Clearing change flags <IP-Added>
Oct 10 16:09:55 2017 Clearing change flags <IP-Peer-Added>
user@leaf-10> show evpn database mac-address 02:0c:10:04:02:02 extensive
Instance: default-switch
VN Identifier: 50000, MAC address:: 02:0c:10:04:02:02
Source: 00:00:00:00:00:01:00:00:00:01, Rank: 1, Status: Active

255
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
Remote origin: 192.168.1.12
Timestamp: Oct 10 16:14:32 (0x59dd5458)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
IP address: 10.1.4.202
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
Remote origin: 192.168.1.12
L3 route: 10.1.4.202/32, L3 context: VRF_3 (irb.500)
IP address: 2001:db8::10:1:4:202
Remote origin: 192.168.1.11
L3 route: 2001:db8::10:1:4:202/128, L3 context: VRF_3 (irb.500) History db:
Time Event
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local state present)
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Sent MAC add with NH 0, interface ae11.0 (index 0), RTT 9, remote
addr 192.168.1.12, ESI 0100000001, VLAN 0, VNI 50000, flags 0x0, timestamp 0x59dd5458 to L2ALD
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Sent peer 192.168.1.12 record created
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Sent MAC+IP add, interface <none>, RTT 9, IP 10.1.4.202 remote
peer 192.168.1.12, ESI 0100000001, VLAN 0, VNI 50000, flags 0x80, timestamp 0x59dd5458 to
L2ALD
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x4000 <IP-Peer-Added>)
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local source present)
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x0)
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local source present)
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Clearing change flags <ESI-Peer-Added>
Oct 10 16:14:32 2017 Clearing change flags <IP-Peer-Added>
Or for example, with an IPv6 Fabric:
user@leaf-1> show evpn database mac-address c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00 l2-domain-id 1000
Instance: MAC-VRF-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
1000 c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 Jan 19 17:36:46 77.5.241.242
2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242
fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00
user@leaf-1> show evpn database mac-address c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00 l2-domain-id 1000 extensive
Instance: MAC-VRF-1
VN Identifier: 1000, MAC address: c8:fe:6a:e4:2e:00
State: 0x0

256
Source: 2001:db8::192:168:1:2, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Mobility sequence number: 0 (minimum origin address 2001:db8::192:168:1:2)
Timestamp: Jan 19 17:36:46.033965 (0x61e8bcae)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done Remote-Pinned>
MAC advertisement route status: Not created (no local state present)
IP address: 77.5.241.242
IP address: 2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242
IP address: fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00
History db:
Time Event
Jan 19 16:15:00.440 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : Remote peer 2001:db8::192:168:1:2
created
Jan 19 16:15:00.440 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : Created
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 Updating output state (change flags 0x1 <ESI-Added>)
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 Active ESI changing (not assigned -> 2001:db8::192:168:1:2)
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : 77.5.241.242 Selected IRB interface
nexthop
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : 77.5.241.242 Reject remote ip host
route 77.5.241.242 in L3 context VRF-1 since no remote-ip-host-routes configured
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : 2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242 Selected IRB
interface nexthop
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : 2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242 Reject remote
ip host route 2001:db8::77:0:5f1:242 in L3 context VRF-1 since no remote-ip-host-routes
configured
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00 Selected
IRB interface nexthop
Jan 19 16:15:00.447 2022 2001:db8::192:168:1:2 : fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00 Reject
remote ip host route fe80::cafe:6a05:f1e4:2e00 in L3 context VRF-1 since no remote-ip-host-
routes configured
5. Verify the IPv4 and IPv6 end system routes appear in the forwarding table.
user@leaf-10> show route forwarding-table table VRF_1 destination 10.1.4.202 extensive
Routing table: VRF_3.inet [Index 5]
Internet:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, All VLANs,
Destination: 10.1.4.202/32
Route type: destination
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 563
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0

257
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop: b0:c:10:4:2:2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 10210 Reference: 1
Next-hop interface: ae11.0
user@leaf-10> show route forwarding-table table VRF_1 destination 2001:db8::10:1:4:202
extensive
Routing table: VRF_3.inet6 [Index 5]
Internet6:
Enabled protocols: Bridging, All VLANs,
Destination: 2001:db8::10:1:4:202/128
Route type: destination
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 563
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
Flags: sent to PFE
Nexthop: b0:c:10:4:2:2
Next-hop type: unicast Index: 10244 Reference: 1
Next-hop interface: ae11.0
SEE ALSO
MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview
Example: Configuring an EVPN-VXLAN Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Within a Data Center
Example: Configuring a QFX5110 Switch as Layer 2 and 3 VXLAN Gateways in an EVPN-VXLAN
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf
Devices
In EVPN-VXLAN ERB overlay networks, by default, leaf devices use an asymmetric IRB model with
EVPN Type 2 routes to send traffic between subnets across the VXLAN tunnels, where:
• L3 routing for inter-subnet traffic happens at the ingress device. Then the source VTEP forwards
traffic at L2 toward the destination VTEP.
• The traffic arrives at the destination VTEP, and that VTEP forwards the traffic on the destination
VLAN.

258
• For this model to work, you must configure all source and destination VLANs and their corresponding
VNIs on all leaf devices.
You can alternatively enable symmetric IRB routing with Type 2 routes (called symmetric Type 2 routing
here for brevity). We support symmetric Type 2 routing only in ERB overlay fabrics.
To use the symmetric IRB model to route traffic for a VRF, you must enable it in that VRF on all the leaf
devices in the fabric. However, you don't need to configure all VLANs and VNIs in the VRF on all leaf
devices. On each leaf device, you can configure only the host VLANs that leaf device serves. As a result,
using symmetric Type 2 routing helps with scaling when your EVPN network has a large number of
VLANs and many attached hosts or servers. We highlight this benefit here when we show how to enable
symmetric Type 2 routing in the ERB overlay reference architecture in this chapter.
With the symmetric Type 2 routing model, the VTEPs route between subnets in a tenant VRF instance
using the same VNI in either direction. Symmetric Type 2 routing for a VRF shares the L3 VNI tunnel
you configure for EVPN Type 5 routing in the VRF. The implementation requires you to also configure
EVPN Type 5 routing in the VRF. See Symmetric Integrated Routing and Bridging with EVPN Type 2
Routes in EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics for more details on asymmetric and symmetric IRB routing models, and
how symmetric Type 2 routing works.
In this section, you update the configuration for the EVPN instance MAC-VRF-1 from "Configure an
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241 to include four more VLANs, VNI
mappings, and corresponding IRB interfaces. You include the IRB interfaces in another tenant VRF called
VRF_2 as follows:
• Leaf 10—IRB 100
• Leaf 11—IRB 200
• Leaf 12—IRB 300 and IRB 400
See Figure 56 on page 259.
The VNI for the L3 VNI tunnel in the figure is the VNI you configure for EVPN Type 5 routing in VRF_2.
We enable symmetric Type 2 routing with the same VNI in VRF_2. Again, note that with symmetric Type
2 routing, you don't need to configure all VLANs in the VRF on all leaf devices.

259
Figure 56: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay—Leaf Devices with Symmetric IRB Type 2 Routing
You must configure the EVPN instance using instance type MAC-VRF on the leaf devices in the ERB
overlay fabric according to the instructions in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf
Device" on page 241. Use a different route distinguisher on each leaf device—in this configuration, the
route distinguishers mirror the device lo0.0 loopback addresses on the device. This configuration
includes the same MAC-VRF instance and the same instance vrf-target value, but these don't need to be
the same on all the leaf devices for symmetric Type 2 routing to work.
To enable symmetric Type 2 routing on the leaf devices according to Figure 56 on page 259, perform
these additional configuration steps as indicated in each step for Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12.

260
1. Configure the aggregated Ethernet interface ae11 trunk interface to carry the additional VLANs 100,
200, 300, and 400 (named VNI_10000, VNI_20000, VNI_30000, and VNI_40000, respectively) as
the figure shows for the different leaf devices.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_10000
Leaf 11:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_20000
Leaf 12:
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_30000
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VNI_40000
2. In the MAC-VRF EVPN instance, configure the VLANs, their associated IRB interfaces, and the VLAN
to VNI mappings, as the figure shows.
Leaf 10 (VLAN 100):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_10000 vlan-id 100
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_10000 l3-interface irb.100
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_10000 vxlan vni 10000
Leaf 11 (VLAN 200):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_20000 vlan-id 200
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_20000 l3-interface irb.200
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_20000 vxlan vni 20000
Leaf 12 (VLANs 300 and 400):
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_30000 vlan-id 300
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_30000 l3-interface irb.300
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_30000 vxlan vni 30000
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_40000 vlan-id 400
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_40000 l3-interface irb.400
set routing-instances MAC-VRF-1 vlans VNI_40000 vxlan vni 40000

261
3. Configure the IRB interfaces for VLANs 100, 200, 300 and 400 on their respective leaf devices with
IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack addresses for the IRB IP addresses and virtual gateway IP addresses.
Here we use the same style of IRB interface configuration as VLAN 500 and VLAN 600 in VRF_3 (see
Step 7 in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241). Assign each
IRB interface a unique IP address with a virtual gateway IP address (VGA) and a virtual gateway MAC
address (the virtual gateway MAC is the same for all leaf devices).
Leaf 10 (IRB 100):
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.1.0.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:0:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:0::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:0::254
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
Leaf 11 (IRB 200):
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet address 10.1.1.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:1:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:1::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:1::254
set interfaces irb unit 200 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 200 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
Leaf 12 (IRB 300 and IRB 400):
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet address 10.1.2.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.2.254
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:2:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:2:254
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:2::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:2::254
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet address 10.1.3.1/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.1.3.254
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:3:1/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:1:3:254
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet6 address fe80:10:1:3::1/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:1:3::254
set interfaces irb unit 300 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 300 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04

262
set interfaces irb unit 400 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 400 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
4. Enable ping for the IRB interfaces for VLANs 100, 200, 300, and 400 on their respective leaf devices.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.1.0.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:0:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-accept-data
Leaf 11:
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet address 10.1.1.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 200 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:1:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 200 virtual-gateway-accept-data
Leaf 12:
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet address 10.1.2.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 300 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:2:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 300 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet address 10.1.3.1/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 400 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:1:3:1/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 400 virtual-gateway-accept-data
5. Configure the additional VRF instance VRF_2 on all three leaf devices, similarly to how you configure
the other VRF instances in "Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page
241, Step 13. Assign a logical loopback interface (we use unit 2 in this case) to the new VRF instance
so that the VXLAN gateway can resolve ARP requests. Include the IRB interfaces in VRF_2 for the
VLANs supported on each leaf device in Figure 56 on page 259. Note that on each device, we assign
a VRF route distinguisher that is unique to the device (based on the device lo0.0 address for
simplicity). However, we use the same VRF route target on all the devices.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces lo0 unit 2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF_2 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface irb.100
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface lo0.2

263
set routing-instances VRF_2 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:100
set routing-instances VRF_2 vrf-target target:62273:20000
Leaf 11:
set interfaces lo0 unit 2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF_2 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface irb.200
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface lo0.2
set routing-instances VRF_2 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.11:200
set routing-instances VRF_2 vrf-target target:62273:20000
Leaf 12:
set interfaces lo0 unit 2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF_2 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface irb.300
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface irb.400
set routing-instances VRF_2 interface lo0.2
set routing-instances VRF_2 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.12:300
set routing-instances VRF_2 vrf-target target:62273:20000
6. Enable EVPN Type 5 routing in VRF_2, and assign an L3 transit VNI value for Type 5 routing. We
configure VNI value 16777123 here.
Similarly to how you configure the VRF instances and Type 5 routing in the other VRF instances in
"Configure an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay on a Leaf Device" on page 241, Step 13, in this step we
also:
• Enable L3 load balancing by setting the multipath option for IPv4 and IPv6 traffic.
• Set up at least one dummy IPv4 and IPv6 route for the new tenant VRF instance, so the device
can advertise at least one EVPN Type 5 route in the VRF.
However, we don't apply the EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES export policy for IP prefix routes from that
step. For the devices to invoke symmetric Type 2 routing instead of Type 5 routing, we don't
configure this Type 5 export policy in VRF_2 on the leaf devices.
Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12:
set routing-instances VRF_2 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_2 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_2 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 16777123

264
set routing-instances VRF_2 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF_2 routing-options rib VRF_2.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF_2 routing-options static route 10.10.20.30/32 discard
set routing-instances VRF_2 routing-options rib VRF_2.inet6.0 static route
2001:db8::101:1:1:1/128 discard
NOTE: ACX7100 routers and QFX5210 switches don't support asymmetric VNI values
on either side of a VXLAN tunnel for a given VRF. To support EVPN Type 5 routing and
symmetric IRB routing with EVPN Type 2 routes on those platforms, you must configure
the same L3 VNI value for a particular VRF on each of the leaf devices. On other
platforms, the L3 VNI can be different on either side of the tunnel for a given VRF. For
simplicity, this step uses the same L3 VNI for VRF_2 on all leaf devices.
7. Enable symmetric Type 2 routing for VRF_2 on the leaf devices using the irb-symmetric-routing
configuration statement at the [edit routing-instances l3-vrf-name protocols evpn] hierarchy level.
In Step 6 of this procedure, when you configure VRF instance VRF_2, you enable Type 5 routing and
assign VNI 16777123 for the Type 5 VXLAN tunnel. You use the same VNI value when you enable
symmetric Type 2 routing for VRF_2.
Leaf 10, Leaf 11, and Leaf 12:
set routing-instances VRF_2 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni 16777123
Verify Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on a Leaf Device
In "Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf Devices" on page 257, you
enable symmetric Type 2 routing in VRF_2 on:
• Leaf 10 for VLAN 100 with VNI 10000, irb.100 = 10.1.0.1/24
• Leaf 11 for VLAN 200 with VNI 20000, irb.200 = 10.1.1.1/24
• Leaf 12 for:
• VLAN 300 with VNI 30000, irb.300 = 10.1.2.1/24
• VLAN 400 with VNI 40000, irb.400 = 10.1.3.1/24
In this section, on Leaf 10, we view routes toward Leaf 11 to verify that the leaf devices invoke
symmetric Type 2 routing.

265
1. Verify that Leaf 10 adds IP host routes to the VRF_2 routing table for the remote EVPN Type 2 MAC-
IP route toward Leaf 11.
user@leaf-10> show route 10.1.1.1
VRF_2.inet.0: 32 destinations, 48 routes (32 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.1.1.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 05:57:40
> to 172.16.10.1 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.5 via ae2.0
2. Verify that the device advertises EVPN Type 2 MAC-IP routes with the VRF_2 L3 context and the L3
transit VNI you configured for VRF_2.
From the configuration in "Configure Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes on Leaf
Devices" on page 257:
• The vrf-target of MAC-VRF-1 is target:64512:1111.
• The vrf-target for VRF_2 is target:62273:20000.
• The route distinguisher for VRF_2 on Leaf 11 is 192.168.1.11:200.
• The L3 transit VNI for EVPN Type 5 routing and symmetric Type 2 routing is 16777123.
user@leaf-10> show route table MAC-VRF-1.evpn.0 | match 10.1.1.1
2:192.168.1.11:200::20000::00:31:46:79:e4:9a::10.1.1.1/304 MAC/IP
user@leaf-10> show route table MAC-VRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix
2:192.168.1.11:200::20000::00:31:46:79:e4:9a::10.1.1.1 extensive
MAC-VRF-1.evpn.0: 227 destinations, 417 routes (227 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
2:192.168.1.11:200::20000::00:31:46:79:e4:9a::10.1.1.1/304 MAC/IP (2 entries, 1 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.11:200
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x74c2e14
Next-hop reference count: 44424, key opaque handle: 0x0, non-key opaque
handle: 0x0
Source: 192.168.0.2
Protocol next hop: 192.168.1.11
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0

266
State: <Secondary Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 6:00:19 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
.
.
.
Communities: target:62273:20000 target:64512:1111 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
mac-mobility:0x1:sticky (sequence 0) router-mac:00:31:46:79:e4:9a
Import Accepted
Route Label: 20000
Route Label: 16777123
ESI: 00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.0.2
Primary Routing Table: bgp.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.1.11
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.10.1 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.10.5 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
192.168.1.11/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.10.1 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.10.5 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.11:200
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x74c2e14
.
.
.

267
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
ip-prefix-routes
proxy-macip-advertisement
virtual-gateway-address
EVPN Overview
Understanding VXLANs
Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation
Configuring EVPN Routing Instances
Example: Configuring an ESI on a Logical Interface With EVPN Multihoming
Overview of VLAN Services for EVPN
Aggregated Ethernet LACP for Switches
Routing Instances Overview
Example: Configuring VNI Route Targets Manually
Symmetric Integrated Routing and Bridging with EVPN Type 2 Routes in EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics
Routed Overlay Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 269
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device | 270
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 272
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device | 274
Routed Overlay — Release History | 280
A third overlay option for this Cloud Data Center reference design is a routed overlay, as shown in
Figure 57 on page 268.

268
Figure 57: Routed Overlay
The routed overlay service supports IP-connected end systems that interconnect with leaf devices using
IP (not Ethernet). The end systems can use dynamic routing protocols to exchange IP routing
information with the leaf devices. The IP addresses and prefixes of the end systems are advertised as
EVPN type-5 routes and imported by other EVPN/VXLAN-enabled spine and leaf devices into a
corresponding VRF routing instance.
To implement a routed overlay, you must use one of the QFX10000 line of switches as the leaf devices.
(The QFX5110 is planned to be verified in a future revision of this guide.)
On the spine devices, create a VRF routing instance to accept the EVPN type-5 routes. Include route
distinguishers and route targets, use the advertise direct-nexthop option, and configure the same VNI used
by the leaf devices.
To configure the leaf devices, create a policy that matches on the BGP routes received from the end
systems, and send these routes into a VRF routing instance enabled for EVPN type-5 routes so they can
be shared with other leaf and spine devices in the same IP VNI.
For an overview of routed overlays, see the Routed Overlay section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint
Architecture Components" on page 9.

269
The following sections show the detailed steps of how to configure and verify the routed overlay:
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device
To configure the routed overlay on a spine device, perform the following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Spine 1, as shown in Figure
58 on page 269.
Figure 58: Routed Overlay – Spine Devices
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a spine
device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your spine device,
see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.

270
3. Create a VRF routing instance that enables the EVPN type-5 option (also known as IP prefix routes).
Configure a route distinguisher and route target, provide load balancing for EVPN type-5 routes with
the multipath ECMP option, enable EVPN to advertise direct next hops, specify VXLAN encapsulation,
and assign the VNI.
NOTE: This VRF can be used for north-south traffic flow and will be explained in a
future version of this guide.
Spine 1:
set routing-instances VRF_5 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_5 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:1677
set routing-instances VRF_5 vrf-target target:62273:16776000
set routing-instances VRF_5 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF_5 routing-options rib VRF_5.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 16776000
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Spine Device
To verify that the routed overlay on a spine device is working, perform the following:
1. Verify that the EVPN type-5 routes are being advertised and received for IPv4 and IPv6.
user@spine-1> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF_5
L3 context: VRF_5
EVPN to IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
172.16.104.0/30 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.10:10 16776000 06:31:46:e2:f0:2a 192.168.1.10
172.16.104.4/30 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI

271
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
172.16.104.8/30 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
192.168.3.4/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.10:10 16776000 06:31:46:e2:f0:2a 192.168.1.10
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
EVPN-->IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2001:db8::172:19:4:0/126 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.10:10 16776000 06:31:46:e2:f0:2a 192.168.1.10
2001:db8::172:19:4:4/126 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
2001:db8::172:19:4:8/126 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
2001:db8::192:168:3:4/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.10:10 16776000 06:31:46:e2:f0:2a 192.168.1.10
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
2. Verify that the end system is multihomed to all three QFX10000 leaf devices for both IPv4 and IPv6.
user@spine-1> show route 192.168.3.4 table VRF_5
VRF_5.inet.0: 4 destinations, 7 routes (4 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
192.168.3.4/32 @[EVPN/170] 01:15:09
> to 172.16.10.1 via ae10.0
[EVPN/170] 01:19:53
> to 172.16.11.1 via ae11.0
[EVPN/170] 00:06:21
> to 172.16.12.1 via ae12.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:06:21, metric2 0

272
to 172.16.10.1 via ae10.0
to 172.16.11.1 via ae11.0
> to 172.16.12.1 via ae12.0
user@spine-1> show route 2001:db8::192:168:3:4 table VRF_5
VRF_5.inet6.0: 4 destinations, 7 routes (4 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2001:db8::192:168:3:4/128
@[EVPN/170] 01:17:04
> to 172.16.10.1 via ae10.0
[EVPN/170] 01:21:48
> to 172.16.11.1 via ae11.0
[EVPN/170] 00:08:16
> to 172.16.12.1 via ae12.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:00:12, metric2 0
to 172.16.10.1 via ae10.0
> to 172.16.11.1 via ae11.0
to 172.16.12.1 via ae12.0
Configuring the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device
To configure the routed overlay on a leaf device, perform the following:
NOTE: The following example shows the configuration for Leaf 10, as shown in Figure
59 on page 273.

273
Figure 59: Routed Overlay – Leaf Devices
1. Ensure the IP fabric underlay is in place. To see the steps required to configure an IP fabric on a leaf
device, see "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81.
2. Confirm that your IBGP overlay is up and running. To configure an IBGP overlay on your leaf device,
see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
3. Configure a VRF routing instance to extend EBGP peering to an end system. Specify a route target,
route distinguisher, and the IP address and ASN (AS 4220000001) of the IP-connected end system to
allow the leaf device and end system to become BGP neighbors. To learn how to implement IP
multihoming, see "Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page
281.
NOTE: Each VRF routing instance in the network should have a unique route
distinguisher. In this reference design, the route distinguisher is a combination of the
loopback interface IP address of the device combined with a unique identifier to signify
the device. For VRF 5, the loopback interface IP address on Leaf 10 is 192.168.1.10 and
the ID is 15, making the route distinguisher 192.168.1.10:15.

274
Leaf 10:
set routing-instances VRF_5 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_5 interface et-0/0/15.0
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 type external
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 neighbor 172.16.104.2 peer-as
4220000001
set routing-instances VRF_5 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:15
set routing-instances VRF_5 vrf-target target:62273:16776000
4. Create a policy to match direct routes and BGP routes.
Leaf 10:
set policy-options policy-statement ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES term TERM_1 from protocol bgp
set policy-options policy-statement ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES term TERM_1 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES term TERM_2 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES term TERM_2 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES term TERM_3 then reject
5. Complete your configuration of the VRF routing instance by configuring the EVPN type-5 option. To
implement this feature, configure EVPN to advertise direct next hops such as the IP-connected end
system, specify VXLAN encapsulation, assign the VNI, and export the BGP policy that accepts the
end system routes.
Leaf 10:
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 16776000
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export ADVERTISE_EDGE_ROUTES
Verifying the Routed Overlay on a Leaf Device
NOTE: The operational mode command output included in the following sections
assumes you have configured IP multihoming as explained in "Multihoming an IP-
Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 281.
To verify that the routed overlay on a leaf device is working, perform the following:

275
1. Verify that the IPv4 routes from the VRF are converted to EVPN type-5 routes are advertised to
EVPN peers.
user@leaf-10> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF_5
L3 context: VRF_5
IPv4 to EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
172.16.104.0/30 Created
192.168.3.4/32 Created ## Note: this is the Lo0 interface of a
end system
IPv6 to EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
2001:db8::172:19:4:0/126 Created
2001:db8::192:168:3:4/128 Created ## Note: this is the Lo0 interface of
an end systemEVPN to IPv4 Imported Prefixes. These are received as a
type-5 route, and converted back to IPv4.
Prefix Etag
172.16.104.4/30 0 ## From Leaf 11
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
172.16.104.8/30 0 ## From Leaf 12
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
192.168.3.4/32 0 ## The loopback address of the end
system
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
EVPN to IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2001:db8::172:19:4:4/126 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI

276
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
2001:db8::172:19:4:8/126 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
2001:db8::192:168:3:4/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.1.11:10 16776001 06:ac:ac:23:0c:4e 192.168.1.11
192.168.1.12:10 16776002 06:ac:ac:24:18:7e 192.168.1.12
2. View the VRF route table for IPv4, IPv6, and EVPN to verify that the end system routes and spine
device routes are being exchanged.
user@leaf-10> show route table VRF_5
This is the IPv4 section
VRF_5.inet.0: 5 destinations, 7 routes (5 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
172.16.104.0/30 *[Direct/0] 01:33:42
> via et-0/0/15.0
172.16.104.1/32 *[Local/0] 01:33:42
Local via et-0/0/15.0
172.16.104.4/30 *[EVPN/170] 01:10:08
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
172.16.104.8/30 *[EVPN/170] 00:01:25
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
192.168.3.4/32 *[BGP/170] 01:33:39, localpref 100
AS path: 4220000001 I
validation-state: unverified, > to 172.16.104.2 via et-0/0/15.0
[EVPN/170] 01:10:08
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[EVPN/170] 00:01:25
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0

277
This is the IPv6 section
VRF_5.inet6.0: 6 destinations, 8 routes (6 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
2001:db8::172:19:4:0/126
*[Direct/0] 01:33:33
> via et-0/0/15.0
2001:db8::172:19:4:1/128
*[Local/0] 01:33:33
Local via et-0/0/15.0
2001:db8::172:19:4:4/126
*[EVPN/170] 01:10:08
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
2001:db8::172:19:4:8/126
*[EVPN/170] 00:01:25
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
2001:db8::192:168:3:4/128
*[BGP/170] 01:33:28, localpref 100
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 2001:db8::172:19:4:2 via et-0/0/15.0
[EVPN/170] 01:10:08
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[EVPN/170] 00:01:25
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
fe80::231:4600:ae2:f06c/128
*[Local/0] 01:33:33
Local via et-0/0/15.0
This is the EVPN section. EVPN routes use the following convention:
Type:Route Distinguisher::0::IP Address::Prefix/NLRI Prefix
VRF_5.evpn.0: 12 destinations, 36 routes (12 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
5:192.168.1.10:10::0::172.16.104.0::30/248
*[EVPN/170] 01:33:42

278
Indirect
5:192.168.1.10:10::0::192.168.3.4::32/248
*[EVPN/170] 01:33:39
Indirect
5:192.168.1.11:10::0::172.16.104.4::30/248
*[BGP/170] 01:10:08, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:09:54, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:10:08, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:09:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
...
5:192.168.1.12:10::0::192.168.3.4::32/248
*[BGP/170] 00:01:20, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:21, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:25, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:17, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
5:192.168.1.10:10::0::2001:db8::172:19:4:0::126/248

279
*[EVPN/170] 01:33:33
Indirect
5:192.168.1.10:10::0::2001:db8::192:168:3:4::128/248
*[EVPN/170] 01:33:28
Indirect
5:192.168.1.11:10::0::2001:db8::172:19:4:4::126/248
*[BGP/170] 01:10:08, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:09:54, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:10:08, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 01:09:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
...
5:192.168.1.12:10::0::2001:db8::192:168:3:4::128/248
*[BGP/170] 00:01:20, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.1
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:21, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.2
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:25, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.3
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 00:01:17, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: 4220000001 I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.10.2 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.6 via ae2.0

280
SEE ALSO
Understanding EVPN Pure Type-5 Routes
ip-prefix-routes
Routed Overlay — Release History
Table 8 on page 280 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 8: Routed Overlay in the Cloud Data Center Reference Design – Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train
support all features documented in this section.
17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
EVPN Overview
Understanding VXLANs
Understanding EVPN with VXLAN Data Plane Encapsulation
Configuring EVPN Routing Instances
Routing Instances Overview

281
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design
and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device | 282
Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End System | 283
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History | 284
For an overview of multihoming an IP-connected end system, see the Multihoming Support for IP-
Connected End Systems section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
Figure 60 on page 281 illustrates the multihomed IP-connected end system—in this procedure, the end
system is an IP-connected server—that is enabled using this procedure:
Figure 60: Multihomed IP-Connected End System Example

282
NOTE: This configuration uses one VLAN per leaf device access interface. See
Configuring a Layer 3 Subinterface (CLI Procedure) to enable VLAN tagging if your setup
requires multiple VLANs per leaf device access interface.
Configuring the End System-Facing Interfaces on a Leaf Device
To configure the IP address of each end system-facing interface on the leaf devices:
1. Configure an IP address on each end system-facing leaf device interface, and put the interface in a
VRF.
Leaf 10:
set interfaces et-0/0/15 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.1/30
set routing-instances VRF_5 interface et-0/0/15.0
NOTE: The VRF_5 routing instance was configured earlier in this guide with this EBGP
configuration. See "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 267.
Leaf 11:
set interfaces et-0/0/15 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.5/30
set routing-instances VRF_5 interface et-0/0/15.0
Leaf 12:
set interfaces et-0/0/15 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.9/30
set routing-instances VRF_5 interface et-0/0/15.0
NOTE: The VRF_5 routing instance was not explicitly configured for Leaf 11 and 12
earlier in this guide.

283
To configure the VRF_5 routing instance to run on Leaf 11 and 12, repeat the procedures
in "Routed Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 267 for these leaf devices. Be
sure to configure a unique route distinguisher for each route to ensure that each leaf
device route is treated as a unique route by the route reflectors.
2. After committing the configuration, confirm that each link is up and that the IP address is properly
assigned.
Sample output from Leaf 10 only is provided in this step.
Leaf 10:
user@leaf10> show interfaces terse et-0/0/15
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
et-0/0/15 up up
et-0/0/15.0 up up inet 172.16.104.1/30
Configuring EBGP Between the Leaf Device and the IP-Connected End
System
EBGP—which is already used in this reference design to pass routes between spine and leaf devices in
the underlay network—is also used in this reference design to pass routes between the IP-connected
server and a leaf device.
NOTE: Other routing protocols can be used to pass routes between an IP-connected end
system and the leaf device. However this is not recommended.
To configure EBGP between a leaf device and an IP-connected end system:
1. Configure EBGP in a VRF routing instance.
Leaf 10:
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 type external
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 neighbor 172.16.104.2 peer-as
4220000001
2. Repeat this procedure on all leaf device interfaces that are multihomed to the IP-connected end
system.

284
Leaf 11:
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 type external
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 neighbor 172.16.104.6 peer-as
4220000001
Leaf 12:
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 type external
set routing-instances VRF_5 protocols bgp group END_SYSTEM_1 neighbor 172.16.104.10 peer-as
4220000001
3. After committing the configurations, confirm that BGP is operational.
A sample of this verification procedure on Leaf 10 is provided below.
Leaf 10:
user@leaf10> show bgp summary instance VRF_5
Groups: 1 Peers: 2 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
VRF_5.inet.0 1 1 0 0 0 0
VRF_5.mdt.0 0 0 0 0 0 0
VRF_5.evpn.0 32 8 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.104.2 422000001 28 24 0 1 10:37 Establ
VRF_5.inet.0: 1/1/1/0
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System—Release History
Table 9 on page 285 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.

285
Table 9: Multihoming IP-Connected End Systems Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
17.3R3-S1 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
EVPN Multihoming Overview
Routed Overlay Design and Implementation | 267
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236
Five-Stage IP Fabric Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network | 288
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network | 292
How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the Underlay and Overlay Networks | 294
How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 296
How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs | 302
To enable you to scale your existing EVPN-VXLAN network in a data center, Juniper Networks supports
a 5-stage IP fabric. Although a 5-stage IP fabric is actually comprised of 3 tiers of networking devices,
the term 5-stage refers to the number of network devices that traffic sent from one host to another
must traverse to reach its destination.

286
Juniper Networks supports a 5-stage IP fabric in an inter-point of delivery (POD) connectivity use case
within a data center. This use case assumes that your EVPN-VXLAN network already includes tiers of
spine and leaf devices in two PODs. To enable connectivity between the two PODs, you add a tier of
super spine devices. To determine which Juniper Networks devices you can use as a super spine device,
see the "Data Center EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Reference Designs—Supported Hardware Summary" on page
51 table.
Figure 61 on page 286 shows the 5-stage IP fabric that we use in this reference design.
Figure 61: Sample 5-Stage IP Fabric
As shown in Figure 61 on page 286, each super spine device is connected to each spine device in each
POD.
We support the following network overlay type combinations in each POD:
• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has a centrally routed bridging overlay.
• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has an edge-routed bridging overlay.
• The EVPN-VXLAN fabric in one POD has a centrally routed bridging overlay, and the fabric in the
other POD has an edge-routed bridging overlay.
Juniper Network’s 5-stage IP fabric supports RFC 7938, Use of BGP for Routing in Large-Scale Data
Centers. However, where appropriate, we use terminology that more effectively describes our use case.

287
Note the following about the 5-stage IP fabric reference design:
• This reference design assumes that the tiers of spine and leaf devices in the two PODs already exist
and are up and running. As a result, except when describing how to configure the advertisement of
EVPN type-5 routes, this topic provides the configuration for the super spine devices only. For
information about configuring the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs, see the following:
• "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81
• "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97
• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172
• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236
• "Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and Implementation" on page 523
• "Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation" on page 533
• The reference design integrates Super Spines 1 and 2 into existing IP fabric underlay and EVPN
overlay networks.
• The super spine devices have the following functions:
• They act as IP transit devices only.
• They serve as route reflectors for Spines 1 through 4.
• When configuring the routing protocol in the EVPN overlay network, you can use either IBGP or
EBGP. Typically, you use IBGP if your data center uses the same autonomous system (AS) number
throughout and EBGP if your data center uses different AS numbers throughout. This reference
design uses the IBGP configuration option. For information about the EBGP configuration option, see
Over-the-Top Data Center Interconnect in an EVPN Network.
• After you integrate Super Spines 1 and 2 into existing IP fabric underlay and EVPN overlay networks
and verify the configuration, the super spine devices will handle the communication between PODs
1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes. This method will work if your PODs use the same IP
address subnet scheme. However, if servers connected to the leaf devices in each POD are in
different subnets, you must configure the devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to
advertise EVPN type-5 routes. For more information, see How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN
Type-5 Routes on the Routing Devices in the PODs later in this topic.

288
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay
Network
This section shows you how to configure the super spine devices so that they can communicate with the
spine devices, which are already configured as part of an existing IP fabric underlay network.
For details about the interfaces and autonomous systems (ASs) in the IP fabric underlay network, see
Figure 62 on page 288.
Figure 62: Integrating Super Spine Devices into an Existing IP Fabric Underlay Network
1. Configure the interfaces that connect the super spine devices to Spines 1 through 4.
For the connection to each spine device, we create an aggregated Ethernet interface that currently
includes a single link. We use this approach in case you need to increase the throughput to each
spine device at a later time.
For interface details for the super spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288.

289
Super Spine 1
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.101.0/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.102.0/31
set interfaces et-0/0/3 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.103.0/31
set interfaces et-0/0/4 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.0/31
Super Spine 2
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.101.2/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.102.2/31
set interfaces et-0/0/3 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.103.2/31
set interfaces et-0/0/4 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.2/31
2. Specify an IP address for loopback interface lo0.0.
We use the loopback address for each super spine device when setting up an export routing policy
later in this procedure.
Super Spine 1
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.1/32
Super Spine 2
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.2/32
3. Configure the router ID.
We use the router ID for each super spine device when setting up the route reflector cluster in the
EVPN overlay network.

290
Super Spine 1
set routing-options router-id 192.168.2.1
Super Spine 2
set routing-options router-id 192.168.2.2
4. Create a BGP peer group named underlay-bgp, and enable EBGP as the routing protocol in the
underlay network.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
5. Configure the AS number.
In this reference design, each device is assigned a unique AS number in the underlay network. For the
AS numbers of the super spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288.
The AS number for EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using
the local-as statement because the system AS number setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the
EVPN overlay network.
Super Spine 1
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000021
Super Spine 2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000022
6. Set up a BGP peer relationship with Spines 1 through 4.
To establish the peer relationship, on each super spine device, configure each spine device as a
neighbor by specifying the spine device’s IP address and AS number. For the IP addresses and AS
numbers of the spine devices, see Figure 62 on page 288.
Super Spine 1
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.101.1 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.102.1 peer-as 4200000002

291
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.103.1 peer-as 4200000003
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.104.1 peer-as 4200000004
Super Spine 2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.101.3 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.102.3 peer-as 4200000002
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.103.3 peer-as 4200000003
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.104.3 peer-as 4200000004
7. Configure an export routing policy that advertises the IP address of loopback interface lo0.0 on the
super spine devices to the EBGP peering devices (Spines 1 through 4). This policy rejects all other
advertisements.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term def then reject
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
8. Enable multipath with the multiple-as option, which enables load balancing between EBGP peers in
different ASs.
EBGP, by default, selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table.
When BGP multipath is enabled, all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the
forwarding table.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
9. Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for all BGP sessions to enable the rapid detection of
failures and reconvergence.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic

292
How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay
Network
This section explains how to integrate the super spine devices into the EVPN overlay network. In this
control-plane driven overlay, we establish a signalling path between all devices within a single AS using
IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP (MP-IBGP).
In this IBGP overlay, the super spine devices act as a route reflector cluster, and the spine devices are
route reflector clients. For details about the route reflector cluster ID and BGP neighbor IP addresses in
the EVPN overlay network, see Figure 63 on page 292.
Figure 63: Integrating Super Spine Devices into Existing EVPN Overlay Network
1. Configure an AS number for the IBGP overlay.
All devices participating in this overlay (Super Spines 1 and 2, Spines 1 through 4, Leafs 1 through 4)
must use the same AS number. In this example, the AS number is private AS 4210000001.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001

293
2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling to peer with Spines 1 through 4. Also, form the route reflector
cluster (cluster ID 192.168.2.10), and configure equal cost multipath (ECMP) for BGP. Enable path
maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size on the network
path between the source and the destination, with the goal of avoiding IP fragmentation.
For details about the route reflector cluster ID and BGP neighbor IP addresses for super spine and
spine devices, see Figure 63 on page 292.
Super Spine 1
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp local-address 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp cluster 192.168.2.10
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp multipath
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.4
Super Spine 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp local-address 192.168.2.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp cluster 192.168.2.10
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp multipath
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp neighbor 192.168.0.4
NOTE: This reference design does not include the configuration of BGP peering
between Super Spines 1 and 2. However, if you want to set up this peering to complete
the full mesh peering topology, you can optionally do so by creating another BGP group
and specifying the configuration in that group. For example:
Super Spine 1

294
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 local-address 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 neighbor 192.168.2.2
Super Spine 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 local-address 192.168.2.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp2 neighbor 192.168.2.1
3. Enable BFD for all BGP sessions to enable rapid detection of failures and reconvergence.
Super Spines 1 and 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
How to Verify That the Super Spine Devices Are Integrated Into the
Underlay and Overlay Networks
This section explains how you can verify that the super spine devices are properly integrated into the IP
fabric underlay and EVPN overlay networks.
After you successfully complete this verification, the super spine devices will handle communication
between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes. This method will work if your PODs use the
same IP address subnet scheme. However, if each POD uses a different IP address subnet scheme, you
must additionally configure the devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to advertise EVPN
type-5 routes. For more information, see How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on
the Routing Devices in the PODs later in this topic.
1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are enabled, that the physical links are up, and that
packets are being transmitted if traffic has been sent.
The output below provides this verification for aggregated Ethernet interface ae1 on Super Spine 1.
user@super-spine-1> show interfaces ae1
Physical interface: ae1, Enabled, Physical link is Up

295
Interface index: 129, SNMP ifIndex: 544
Link-level type: Ethernet, MTU: 9192, Speed: 80Gbps, BPDU Error: None, Ethernet-Switching
Error: None, MAC-REWRITE Error: None, Loopback: Disabled,
Source filtering: Disabled, Flow control: Disabled, Minimum links needed: 1, Minimum
bandwidth needed: 1bps
Device flags : Present Running
Interface flags: SNMP-Traps Internal: 0x4000
Current address: 80:ac:ac:24:21:98, Hardware address: 80:ac:ac:24:21:98
Last flapped : 2020-07-30 13:09:31 PDT (3d 05:01 ago)
Input rate : 42963216 bps (30206 pps)
Output rate : 107152 bps (76 pps)
Logical interface ae1.0 (Index 544) (SNMP ifIndex 564)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4004000 Encapsulation: ENET2
Statistics Packets pps Bytes bps
Bundle:
Input : 7423834047 30126 1155962320326 37535088
Output: 149534343 82 17315939427 83824
Adaptive Statistics:
Adaptive Adjusts: 0
Adaptive Scans : 0
Adaptive Updates: 0
Protocol inet, MTU: 9000
Max nh cache: 75000, New hold nh limit: 75000, Curr nh cnt: 1, Curr new hold cnt: 0, NH
drop cnt: 0
Flags: Sendbcast-pkt-to-re, Is-Primary, User-MTU
Addresses, Flags: Is-Preferred Is-Primary
Destination: 172.16.101.0/31, Local: 172.16.101.0
2. Verify that the BGP is up and running.
The output below verifies that EBGP and IBGP peer relationships with Spines 1 through 4 are
established and that traffic paths are active.
user@super-spine-1> show bgp summary
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Groups: 2 Peers: 8 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.evpn.0
219394 210148 0 0 0 0
inet.0
55 27 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/

296
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.101.1 4200000001 9452 10053 0 2 3d 5:01:58 Establ
inet.0: 6/14/14/0
172.16.102.1 4200000002 9462 10061 0 3 3d 4:58:50 Establ
inet.0: 7/14/14/0
172.16.103.1 4200000003 9244 9828 0 5 3d 3:14:54 Establ
inet.0: 7/14/14/0
172.16.104.1 4200000004 9457 10057 0 1 3d 4:58:35 Establ
inet.0: 7/13/13/0
192.168.0.1 4210000001 29707 436404 0 2 3d 5:01:49 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 16897/16897/16897/0
192.168.0.2 4210000001 946949 237127 0 3 3d 4:58:51 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 50844/55440/55440/0
192.168.0.3 4210000001 40107 350304 0 7 3d 3:13:54 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 50723/55373/55373/0
192.168.0.4 4210000001 50670 274946 0 1 3d 4:58:32 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 91684/91684/91684/0
3. Verify that BFD is working.
The output below verifies that BGP sessions between Super Spine 1 and Spines 1 through 4 are
established and in the Up state.
user@super-spine-1> show bfd session
Detect Transmit
Address State Interface Time Interval Multiplier
172.16.101.1 Up ae1.0 3.000 1.000 3
172.16.102.1 Up ae2.0 3.000 1.000 3
172.16.103.1 Up ae3.0 3.000 1.000 3
172.16.104.1 Up ae4.0 3.000 1.000 3
192.168.0.1 Up 3.000 1.000 3
192.168.0.2 Up 3.000 1.000 3
192.168.0.3 Up 3.000 1.000 3
192.168.0.4 Up 3.000 1.000 3
How to Enable the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the
Routing Devices in the PODs
After you complete the tasks in the following sections, the super spine devices will handle
communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-2 routes.

297
• How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the IP Fabric Underlay Network
• How to Integrate the Super Spine Devices into the EVPN Overlay Network
• How to Verify the Integration of the Super Spine Devices Into the Underlay and Overlay Networks
If servers connected to the leaf devices in both PODs are in the same subnet, you can skip the task in
this section. However, if servers in each POD are in different subnets, you must further configure the
devices that handle inter-subnet routing in the PODs to advertise EVPN type-5 routes as described in
this section. This type of route is also known as an IP prefix route.
In this EVPN type-5 reference design, the EVPN-VXLAN fabric in both PODs has a centrally routed
bridging overlay. In this type of overlay, the spine devices handle inter-subnet routing. Therefore, this
section explains how to enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes on the spine devices in PODs
1 and 2.
To enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes, you set up a tenant routing instance named VRF-1
on each spine device. In the routing instance, you specify which host IP addresses and prefixes that you
want a spine device to advertise as EVPN type-5 routes with a VXLAN network identifier (VNI) of
500001. A spine device will advertise the EVPN type-5 routes to the other spine and leaf devices within
the same POD. The spine device will also advertise the EVPN type-5 routes to the super spine devices,
which will in turn advertise the routes to the spine devices in the other POD. All spine devices on which
you have configured VRF-1 will import the EVPN type-5 routes into their VRF-1 routing table.
After you enable the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes, the super spine devices will handle
communication between PODs 1 and 2 by advertising EVPN type-5 routes.
Figure 64 on page 298 shows the EVPN type-5 configuration details for the inter-POD use case.

298
Figure 64: Advertisement of EVPN-Type-5 Routes Between PODs 1 and 2
Table 10 on page 298 outlines the VLAN ID to IRB interface mappings for this reference design.
Table 10: VLAN ID to IRB Interface Mappings
VLAN Names VLAN IDs IRB Interface
Spines 1 and 2 in POD 1
VLAN BD-1 1 irb.1
VLAN BD-2 2 irb.2
Spines 3 and 4 in POD 2

299
Table 10: VLAN ID to IRB Interface Mappings (Continued)
VLAN Names VLAN IDs IRB Interface
VLAN BD-3 3 irb.3
VLAN BD-4 4 irb.4
To set up the advertisement of EVPN type-5 routes:
1. Create loopback interface lo0.1, and specify that is in the IPv4 address family.
For example:
Spine 1
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet
2. Configure a routing instance of type vrf named VRF-1. In this routing instance, include loopback
interface lo0.1 so that the spine device, which acts as a VXLAN gateway, can resolve ARP requests
and the IRB interfaces that correspond to each spine device (see Table 10 on page 298). Set a route
distinguisher and VRF targets for the routing instance. Configure load balancing for EVPN type-5
routes with the multipath ECMP option.
For example:
Spine 1
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target import target:200:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target export target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options rib VRF-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options multipath
Spine 2
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1

300
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.2:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target import target:200:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target export target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options rib VRF-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options multipath
Spine 3
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.3:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target import target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target export target:200:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options rib VRF-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options multipath
Spine 4
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target import target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target export target:200:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options rib VRF-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options multipath
3. Enable EVPN to advertise direct next hops, specify VXLAN encapsulation, and assign VNI 500001 to
the EVPN type-5 routes.
For the configuration of Spines 1 through 4, use VNI 500001 in this configuration.
For example:

301
Spine 1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 500001
4. Define an EVPN type-5 export policy named ExportHostRoutes for tenant routing instance VRF-1.
For example, the following configuration establishes that VRF-1 advertises all host IPv4 and IPv6
addresses and prefixes learned by EVPN and from networks directly connected to Spine 1.
Spine 1
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 1 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 1 from route-filter 0.0.0.0/0
prefix-length-range /32-/32
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 1 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 2 from family inet6
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 2 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 2 from route-filter 0::0/0 prefix-
length-range /128-/128
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 2 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 3 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement ExportHostRoutes term 3 then accept
5. Apply the export policy named ExportHostRoutes to VRF-1.
For example:
Spine 1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export ExportHostRoutes
6. In this reference design, QFX5120-32C switches act as spine devices. For these switches and all
other QFX5XXX switches that act as spine devices in a centrally routed bridging overlay, you must
perform the following additional configuration to properly implement EVPN pure type-5 routing.
Spines 1 through 4
set routing-options forwarding-table chained-composite-next-hop ingress evpn
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 32768
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing interface-num 8192
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing overlay-ecmp

302
How to Verify the Advertisement of EVPN Type-5 Routes on the Routing
Devices in the PODs
To verify that the spine devices in this reference design are properly advertising EVPN type-5 routes:
1. View the VRF route table to verify that the end system routes and spine device routes are being
exchanged.
The following snippet of output shows IPv4 routes only.
Spine 1
user@Spine-1> show route table VRF-1
VRF-1.inet.0: 53 destinations, 93 routes (53 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.0.1.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 00:19:49
> via irb.1
10.0.1.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 00:00:56
> via irb.1
10.0.1.241/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.1
10.0.1.254/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.1
10.0.2.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 00:19:49
> via irb.2
10.0.2.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 00:00:56
> via irb.2
10.0.2.241/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.2
10.0.2.254/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.2
10.0.3.0/24 @[EVPN/170] 1d 00:17:54
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 20:53:20
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 20:53:20, metric2 0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0

303
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
10.0.3.1/32 @[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:00:26, metric2 0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
10.0.4.0/24 @[EVPN/170] 1d 00:17:54
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 20:53:20
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 20:53:20, metric2 0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
10.0.4.1/32 @[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:00:26, metric2 0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
...
Spine 3
user@Spine-3> show route table VRF-1
10.0.1.0/24 @[EVPN/170] 1d 00:17:54
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0

304
[EVPN/170] 20:53:20
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 20:53:20, metric2 0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
10.0.1.1/32 @[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:00:26, metric2 0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
10.0.2.0/24 @[EVPN/170] 1d 00:17:54
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 20:53:20
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 20:53:20, metric2 0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
10.0.2.1/32 @[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
[EVPN/170] 00:00:26
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
#[Multipath/255] 00:00:26, metric2 0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
to 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
10.0.3.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 00:19:49
> via irb.3

305
10.0.3.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 00:00:56
> via irb.3
10.0.3.241/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.3
10.0.3.254/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.3
10.0.4.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 00:19:49
> via irb.4
10.0.4.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 00:00:56
> via irb.4
10.0.4.241/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.4
10.0.4.254/32 *[Local/0] 1d 00:19:49
Local via irb.4
...
2. Verify that EVPN type-5 IPv4 and IPv6 routes are exported and imported into the VRF-1 routing
instance.
Spine 1
user@Spine-1> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-1
L3 context: VRF-1
IPv4->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
10.0.1.0/24 Created
10.0.1.1/32 Created
10.0.2.0/24 Created
10.0.2.1/32 Created
IPv6->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
2001:db8::10.0.1:0/112 Created
2001:db8::10.0.1:1/128 Created
2001:db8::10.0.2:0/112 Created
2001:db8::10.0.2:1/128 Created
EVPN->IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
10.0.3.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3

306
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
10.0.3.1/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
10.0.4.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
10.0.4.1/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
EVPN->IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2001:db8::10:0:3:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
2001:db8::10:0:3:1/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
2001:db8::10:0:4:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
2001:db8::10:0:4:1/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.3:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:f2 192.168.0.3
192.168.0.4:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:d0 192.168.0.4
Spine 3
user@Spine-3> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-1
L3 context: VRF-1
IPv4->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
10.0.3.0/24 Created

307
10.0.3.1/32 Created
10.0.4.0/24 Created
10.0.4.1/32 Created
IPv6->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
2001:db8::10.0.3:0/112 Created
2001:db8::10.0.3:1/128 Created
2001:db8::10.0.4:0/112 Created
2001:db8::10.0.4:1/128 Created
EVPN->IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
10.0.1.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
10.0.1.1/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
10.0.2.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
10.0.2.1/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
EVPN->IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2001:db8::10:0:1:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
2001:db8::10:0:1:1/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
2001:db8::10:0:2:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI

308
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
2001:db8::10:0:2:1/128 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.1:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:38 192.168.0.1
192.168.0.2:1 500001 00:00:5e:00:53:29 192.168.0.2
3. Verify the EVPN type-5 route encapsulation details. The following output shows the details for
specified prefixes.
Spine 1
user@Spine-1> show route table VRF-1 10.0.4.1 extensive
VRF-1.inet.0: 53 destinations, 93 routes (53 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
10.0.4.1/32 (3 entries, 1 announced)
State: CalcForwarding
TSI:
KRT in-kernel 10.0.4.1/32 -> {list:composite(99398), composite(129244)}
@EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x16197b18
Next-hop reference count: 31
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.4
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.1, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.4
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
State: Active Int Ext
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-1-EVPN-L3-context
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.4

309
Communities: target:200:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:f2
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.4
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.1, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.4
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.4/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x2755af1c
Next-hop reference count: 31
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.3
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:d0

310
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
State: Int Ext
Inactive reason: Nexthop address
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-1-EVPN-L3-context
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.3
Communities: target:200:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:d0
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.3
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:d0
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
#Multipath Preference: 255
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0xe3aa170
Next-hop reference count: 19
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0

311
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.101.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.101.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.4
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.4
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.3
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:d0
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
State: ForwardingOnly Int Ext
Inactive reason: Forwarding use only
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: RT
Announcement bits (1): 2-KRT
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.4
Communities: target:200:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:f2
Spine 2
user@Spine-3> show route table VRF-1 10.0.1.1 extensive
VRF-1.inet.0: 53 destinations, 93 routes (53 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
10.0.1.1/32 (3 entries, 1 announced)
State: CalcForwarding

312
TSI:
KRT in-kernel 10.0.1.1/32 -> {list:composite(99398), composite(129244)}
@EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x16197b18
Next-hop reference count: 31
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.1
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.1
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
State: Active Int Ext
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-1-EVPN-L3-context
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.1
Communities: target:100:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:38
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.1
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.1
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0

313
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.1/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x2755af1c
Next-hop reference count: 31
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.2
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.2
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:29
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
State: Int Ext
Inactive reason: Nexthop address
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-1-EVPN-L3-context
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.2
Communities: target:100:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:29
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.2
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0

314
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.2
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:29
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
#Multipath Preference: 255
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0xe3aa170
Next-hop reference count: 19
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.103.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.103.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.1
Composite next hop: 0x1b8ed840 99398 INH Session ID: 0x349
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.1
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:38
Indirect next hop: 0x15bc4284 2101077 INH Session ID: 0x349
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.2

315
Composite next hop: 0x2a627e20 129244 INH Session ID: 0x84e
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 1508
Encap VNI: 500001, Decap VNI: 500001
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.3, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.2
SMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:f2, DMAC: 00:00:5e:00:53:29
Indirect next hop: 0x15bb6c04 2105498 INH Session ID: 0x84e
State: ForwardingOnly Int Ext
Inactive reason: Forwarding use only
Age: 6:49 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: RT
Announcement bits (1): 2-KRT
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.2
Communities: target:100:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:00:00:5e:00:53:29
Collapsed Spine Fabric Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture | 318
Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 320
Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With the Route Reflector Layer | 328
Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR Switches | 334
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster and ToR Devices | 342
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Configuration | 348
In collapsed spine fabrics, core EVPN-VXLAN overlay functions are collapsed only onto a spine layer.
There is no leaf layer; the spine devices can interface directly to existing top-of-rack (ToR) switches in
the access layer that might not support EVPN-VXLAN.

316
TOR switches can be multihomed to more than one spine device for access layer resiliency, which the
spine devices manage using EVPN multihoming (also called ESI-LAG) the same way as the leaf devices
do in other EVPN-VXLAN reference architectures. (See "Multihoming an Ethernet-Connected End
System Design and Implementation" on page 229 for details.)
The spine devices also assume any border device roles for connectivity outside the data center.
Some common elements in collapsed spine architecture use cases include:
• Collapsed spine fabric with spine devices connected back-to-back:
In this model, the spine devices are connected with point-to-point links. The spine devices establish
BGP peering in the underlay and overlay over those links using their loopback addresses. See Figure
65 on page 317.
Alternatively, the collapsed spine core devices can be integrated with a route reflector cluster in a
super spine layer, which is explained later (our reference architecture).
• Data center locations connected with Data Center Interconnect (DCI):
The spine devices can perform border gateway functions to establish EVPN peering between data
centers, including Layer 2 stretch and Layer 3 connectivity, as Figure 65 on page 317 shows.
• Standalone switches or Virtual Chassis in the access layer:
The ToR layer can contain standalone switches or Virtual Chassis multihomed to the collapsed spine
devices. With Virtual Chassis, you can establish redundant links in the ESI-LAGs between the spine
devices and different Virtual Chassis member switches to increase resiliency. See Figure 66 on page
317.
Figure 65 on page 317 shows a logical view of a collapsed spine data center with border connectivity,
DCI between data centers, and Virtual Chassis in the ToR layer multihomed to the spine devices.

317
Figure 65: Collapsed Spine Data Center With Multihomed Virtual Chassis TOR Devices and Data
Center Interconnect
Figure 66 on page 317 illustrates Virtual Chassis in the ToR layer multihomed to a back-to-back
collapsed spine layer, where the spine devices link to different Virtual Chassis member switches to
improve ESI-LAG resiliency.
Figure 66: Collapsed Spine Design With Back-to-Back Spine Devices and Multihomed Virtual Chassis
in ToR Layer
Refer to Collapsed Spine with EVPN Multihoming, a network configuration example that describes a
common collapsed spine use case with back-to-back spine devices. In that example, the ToR devices are
Virtual Chassis that are multihomed to the collapsed spine devices. The example includes how to

318
configure additional security services using an SRX chassis cluster to protect inter-tenant traffic, with
inter-data center traffic also routed through the SRX cluster as a DCI solution.
Another collapsed spine fabric model interconnects the spine devices through an IP transit layer route
reflector cluster that you integrate with the collapsed spine core underlay and overlay networks. Our
reference architecture uses this model and is described in the following sections.
Overview of Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture
Our reference architecture presents a use case for a collapsed spine data center fabric comprising two
inter-point of delivery (POD) modules. The PODs and collapsed spine devices in the PODs are
interconnected by a super spine IP transit layer configured as a route reflector cluster. See Figure 67 on
page 319. This architecture is similar to a five-stage IP fabric design (see "Five-Stage IP Fabric Design
and Implementation" on page 285), but with only the super spine, spine, and access layers. You
configure the collapsed spine fabric to integrate the route reflector cluster devices into the IP fabric
underlay and EVPN overlay in a similar way.

319
Figure 67: Collapsed Spine Fabric Integrated With a Route Reflector Cluster
Figure 67 on page 319 shows an example of the collapsed spine reference design, which includes the
following elements:
• POD 1: ToR 3 multihomed to Spine 1 and Spine 2
• POD 2: ToR 1 and ToR 2 multihomed to Spine 3 and Spine 4
• Route reflector cluster: RR 1 and RR 2 interconnecting Spine devices 1 through 4
The four spine devices make up the collapsed spine EVPN fabric core, with Layer 2 stretch and Layer 3
routing between the spine devices in the two PODs. The spine devices in each POD use ESI-LAGs to the
multihomed ToR switches in the same POD.

320
Configure the Collapsed Spine IP Fabric Underlay Integrated With the
Route Reflector Layer
This section describes how to configure the interconnecting links and the IP fabric underlay on the spine
and route reflector devices.
Figure 68 on page 320 shows the collapsed spine and route reflector devices connected by aggregated
Ethernet interface links.
Figure 68: Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture Underlay Integrated With Route Reflector Cluster
To configure the underlay:
1. Before you configure the interfaces connecting the route reflector and spine devices in the fabric, on
each of those devices you must set the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces you might need on
the device. The device assigns unique MAC addresses to each aggregated Ethernet interface you
configure.

321
Configure the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on RR 1, RR 2, Spine 1, Spine 2, Spine 3, and
Spine 4 :
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 20
2. Configure the aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the route reflector and spine devices that form the
collapsed spine fabric as shown in Figure 68 on page 320.
For redundancy, this reference design uses two physical interfaces in each aggregated Ethernet link
between the route reflector and spine devices. The route reflector devices link to the four spine
devices using aggregated Ethernet interfaces ae1 through ae4. Each spine device uses aggregated
Ethernet interfaces ae1 (to RR 1) and ae2 (to RR 2).
Also, we configure a higher MTU (9192) on the physical interfaces to account for VXLAN
encapsulation.
RR 1:
set interfaces et-0/0/46 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/62 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/9 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/10 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/49 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/58 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/34:2 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces xe-0/0/34:3 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.0/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.2.0/31
set interfaces ae3 mtu 9192

322
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.3.0/31
set interfaces ae4 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.4.0/31
RR 2:
set interfaces et-0/0/18 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/35 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/13 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/22 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/23 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/19 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces et-0/0/20 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.5.0/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.6.0/31
set interfaces ae3 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.7.0/31

323
set interfaces ae4 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.8.0/31
Spine 1:
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/27 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.1.1/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.5.1/31
Spine 2:
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/14 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/15 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.2.1/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192

324
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.6.1/31
Spine 3:
set interfaces et-0/0/0 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/7 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/8 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.3.1/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.7.1/31
Spine 4:
set interfaces xe-0/0/3:2 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/3:3 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/19 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/20 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.4.1/31
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1

325
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.8.1/31
3. Configure IP addresses for the loopback interfaces and the router id for each route reflector and
spine device, as shown in Figure 68 on page 320.
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address addr/32
set routing-options router-id addr
4. On the route reflector and spine devices, configure the EBGP IP fabric underlay. The underlay
configuration is similar to other spine and leaf reference architecture designs in "IP Fabric Underlay
Network Design and Implementation" on page 81. However, in the underlay in this reference design,
the collapsed spine fabric is integrated with the route reflector devices for IP transit functions
between the spine devices within and across the PODs.
The underlay configuration includes the following:
• Define an export routing policy (underlay-clos-export) that advertises the IP address of the loopback
interface to EBGP peering devices. This export routing policy is used to make the IP address of
the loopback interface of each device reachable by all devices in the IP fabric (all route reflector
and spine devices).
• Define a local AS number on each device.
• On the route reflector devices: Identify the four spine devices as the EBGP neighbors by their
aggregated Ethernet link IP addresses and local AS numbers.
On the spine devices: Identify the two route reflector devices as the EBGP neighbors by their
aggregated Ethernet link IP addresses and local AS numbers.
• Turn on BGP peer state transition logging.
RR 1:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.1 peer-as 4200000011

326
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.2.1 peer-as 4200000012
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.1 peer-as 4200000013
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.4.1 peer-as 4200000014
set protocols bgp log-updown
RR 2:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.5.1 peer-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.6.1 peer-as 4200000012
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.7.1 peer-as 4200000013
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.8.1 peer-as 4200000014
set protocols bgp log-updown
Spine 1:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.5.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown

327
Spine 2:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000012
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.2.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.6.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown
Spine 3:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000013
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.7.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown
Spine 4:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000014

328
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.4.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.8.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown
Configure the Collapsed Spine EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Integrated With
the Route Reflector Layer
In this design, the overlay is similar to other EVPN-VXLAN data center spine and leaf reference
architectures, but doesn’t include a leaf layer. Only the spine devices (integrated with the route reflector
cluster) do intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN routing in the fabric. We configure IBGP with Multiprotocol BGP
(MP-IBGP) with a single autonomous system (AS) number on the spine devices to establish a signalling
path between them by way of the route reflector cluster devices as follows:
• The route reflector cluster devices peer with the spine devices in both PODs for IP transit.
• The spine devices peer with the route reflector devices.
See Figure 69 on page 329, which illustrates the spine and route reflector cluster devices and BGP
neighbor IP addresses we configure in the EVPN overlay network.

329
Figure 69: Collapsed Spine Reference Architecture Overlay Integrated With Route Reflector Cluster
The overlay configuration is the same on both of the route reflector devices except for the device’s local
address (the loopback address). The route reflector devices peer with all of the spine devices.
The overlay configuration is the same on each of the spine devices except for the device’s local address
(the loopback address). All of the spine devices peer with the route reflector cluster devices.
We configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation and virtual tunnel endpoint (VTEP) interfaces only on
the spine devices in the collapsed spine fabric.
To configure the overlay:
1. Configure an AS number for the IBGP overlay on all spine and route reflector devices:
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001
2. Configure IBGP with EVPN signaling on the route reflector devices to peer with the collapsed spine
devices, identified as IBGP neighbors by their device loopback addresses as illustrated in Figure 69
on page 329.
In this step, you also:
• Define RR 1 and RR 2 as a route reflector cluster (with cluster ID 192.168.2.1).

330
• Enable path maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size
on the network path between the source and the destination, which can help avoid IP
fragmentation.
• Set up Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for detecting IBGP neighbor failures.
• Set the vpn-apply-export option to ensure that both the VRF and BGP group or neighbor export
policies in the BGP configuration are applied (in that order) before the device advertises routes in
the VPN routing tables to the other route reflector or spine devices. (See Distributing VPN Routes
for more information.)
RR 1:
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr local-address 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr cluster 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr multipath
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.4
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr vpn-apply-export
RR 2:
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr local-address 192.168.2.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr cluster 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr multipath

331
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.1.4
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr vpn-apply-export
3. Configure IBGP with EVPN on the collapsed spine devices to peer with the route reflector devices,
which are identified as IBGP neighbors by their device loopback addresses shown in Figure 69 on
page 329. The configuration is the same on all spine devices except you substitute the spine device’s
loopback IP address for the local-address device-loopback-addr value.
In this step you also:
• Enable path maximum transmission unit (MTU) discovery to dynamically determine the MTU size
on the network path between the source and the destination, which can help avoid IP
fragmentation.
• Set up BFD for detecting IBGP neighbor failures.
• Set the vpn-apply-export option to ensure that both the VRF and BGP group or neighbor export
policies in the BGP configuration are applied (in that order) before the device advertises routes in
the VPN routing tables to the other route reflector or spine devices. (See Distributing VPN Routes
for more information.)
All spine devices:
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr type internal
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr local-address device-loopback-addr
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr multipath
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr neighbor 192.168.2.2

332
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-with-rr vpn-apply-export
4. Ensure LLDP is enabled on all interfaces except the management interface (em0) on the route reflector
cluster and spine devices.
All route reflector and spine devices:
set protocols lldp interface all
set protocols lldp interface em0 disable
5. Configure EVPN with VXLAN encapsulation in the overlay on the spine devices. The configuration is
the same on all spine devices in the collapsed spine fabric.
In this step:
• Specify and apply a policy for per-packet load balancing for ECMP in the forwarding table.
• Configure these EVPN options at the [edit protocols evpn] hierarchy level along with setting
VXLAN encapsulation:
• default-gateway no-gateway-community: Advertise the virtual gateway and IRB MAC addresses to the
EVPN peer devices so that Ethernet-only edge devices can learn these MAC addresses. You
configure no-gateway-community in a collapsed spine fabric if the spines use:
• Anycast IP as the gateway with a common anycast MAC address, or
• virtual-gateway-address with a VRRP-based MAC address (00:00:5e:00:01:XX) (see Step 5
in "Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices for the ToR
Switches" on page 334.
• extended-vni-list all option: Allow all configured VXLAN network identifiers (VNIs) to be part of
this EVPN-VXLAN BGP domain. We configure VLANs and VLAN to VNI mappings in a later
section.
• remote-ip-host-routes: Enable virtual machine traffic optimization (VMTO). (See "Ingress Virtual
Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN " on page 42 for more information.)
All spine devices:
set policy-options policy-statement per-packet-load-balance term 1 then load-balance per-
packet
set routing-options forwarding-table export per-packet-load-balance

333
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
6. Configure VTEP, route target, and virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) switch options on the spine
devices.
The configuration is the same on all spine devices except on each device you substitute the device’s
loopback IP address for the route-distinguisher value. This value defines a unique route distinguisher
for routes generated by each device.
The VTEP source interface in the EVPN instance should also match the IBGP local peer address,
which is likewise the device loopback IP address.
Spine 1:
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.1:3333
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
Spine 2:
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.2:3333
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
Spine 3:
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.3:3333
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
Spine 4:
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.1.4:3333

334
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
7. (Required on PTX10000 Series routers only) Enable tunnel termination globally (in other words, on all
interfaces) on the device:
set forwarding-options tunnel-termination
Configure EVPN Multihoming and Virtual Networks on the Spine Devices
for the ToR Switches
This collapsed spine reference design implements EVPN multihoming as described in "Multihoming an
Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229, except because the leaf
layer functions are collapsed into the spine layer, you configure the ESI-LAGs on the spine devices. You
also configure VLANs and Layer 2 and Layer 3 routing functions on the spine devices in a similar way as
you would on the leaf devices in an edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay design. The core collapsed spine
configuration implements a Layer 2 stretch by setting the same VLANs (and VLAN-to-VNI mappings) on
all of the spine devices in both PODs. EVPN Type 2 routes enable communication between endpoints
within and across the PODs.
Figure 70 on page 335 shows the collapsed spine devices in each POD connected with aggregated
Ethernet interface links to the multihomed ToR switches in the POD.

335
Figure 70: Collapsed Spine Fabric With Multihomed ToR Switches
For brevity, this section illustrates one aggregated Ethernet link between each spine and each ToR
device, with one interface configured on each aggregated Ethernet link from the spine devices to the
ToR devices in the POD.
This section covers configuration details only for the spine and ToR devices in POD 2. You can apply a
similar configuration with applicable device parameters and interfaces to the spine and ToR devices in
POD 1.
The ToR devices include two interfaces in their aggregated Ethernet links, one to each spine device in
the POD that form the ESI-LAG for multihoming.
The configuration includes steps to:

336
• Configure the interfaces.
• Set up the ESI-LAGs for EVPN multihoming.
• Configure Layer 2 and Layer 3 gateway functions, including defining VLANs, the associated IRB
interfaces for inter-VLAN routing, and corresponding VLAN-to-VNI mappings.
1. Configure the interfaces and aggregated Ethernet links on the spines (Spine 3 and Spine 4) to the
multihomed ToR switches (ToR 1 and ToR 2) in POD 2.
Spine 3:
set interfaces xe-0/0/22:0 hold-time up 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/22:0 hold-time down 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/22:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/23:0 hold-time up 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/23:0 hold-time down 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/23:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae10
Spine 4:
set interfaces xe-0/0/4:2 hold-time up 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/4:2 hold-time down 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/4:2 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:1 hold-time up 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:1 hold-time down 450000
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae10
2. Configure the ESI-LAGs for EVPN multihoming on the spine devices for the multihomed ToR
switches in POD 2. This design uses the same aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the spine devices to
the ToR switches, so you use the same configuration on both devices.
In this reference design, ae3 connects to ToR 1 and ae10 connects to ToR 2.
Spine 3 and Spine 4:
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:02:00:01:00:03
set interfaces ae3 esi all-active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 300

337
set interfaces ae10 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:01:00:0a
set interfaces ae10 esi all-active
set interfaces ae10 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae10 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae10 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae10 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 300
3. Configure VLANs on the spine devices in POD 2 with ae3 and ae10 as VLAN members.
Spine 3 and Spine 4:
set interfaces ae3 native-vlan-id 4094
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-1
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-2
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-3
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-4
set interfaces ae10 native-vlan-id 4094
set interfaces ae10 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae10 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-1
set interfaces ae10 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-2
set interfaces ae10 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-3
set interfaces ae10 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-4
4. Map the VLANs to VNIs for the VXLAN tunnels and associate an IRB interface with each one.
Spine 3 and Spine 4:
set vlans VLAN-1 vlan-id 1
set vlans VLAN-1 l3-interface irb.1
set vlans VLAN-1 vxlan vni 100001
set vlans VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set vlans VLAN-2 l3-interface irb.2
set vlans VLAN-2 vxlan vni 100002
set vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set vlans VLAN-3 l3-interface irb.3
set vlans VLAN-3 vxlan vni 100003
set vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set vlans VLAN-4 l3-interface irb.4
set vlans VLAN-4 vxlan vni 100004

338
5. Configure the IRB interfaces for the VLANs (VNIs) on the spine devices in POD 2 with IPv4 and IPv6
dual stack addresses for both the IRB IP address and virtual gateway IP address.
Spine 3:
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.243/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.243/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:243/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:243/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.243/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.243/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.2.254
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:243/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:243/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:2:254
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.243/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.243/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.3.254
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:243/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:243/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:3:254
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.243/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.243/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.4.254
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:243/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:243/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:4:254

339
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
Spine 4:
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.244/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.244/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:244/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:244/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.244/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.244/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.2.254
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:244/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:244/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:2:254
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.244/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.244/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.3.254
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:244/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:244/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:3:254
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.244/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.244/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.4.254
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:244/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:244/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:4:254

340
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
6. Define the VRF routing instance and corresponding IRB interfaces for EVPN Type 2 routes on each
spine device in POD 2 for the configured VLANs (VNIs).
Spine 3:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.3:1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 vrf-target target:100:1
Spine 4:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.4:1
set routing-instances VRF-T2-1 vrf-target target:100:1
7. Configure the interfaces and aggregated Ethernet links on the multihomed ToR switches (ToR 1 and
ToR 2) to the spine devices (Spine 3 and Spine 4) in POD 2. In this step, you:
• Set the number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the switch that you might need (we set 20
here as an example).
• Configure aggregated Ethernet link ae1 on each ToR switch to the spine devices in POD 2.
• Configure LLDP on the interfaces.

341
ToR 1:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 20
set interfaces xe-0/0/26 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/27 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set protocols lldp interface all
set protocols lldp interface em0 disable
ToR 2:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 20
set interfaces xe-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/27 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set protocols lldp interface all
set protocols lldp interface em0 disable
8. Configure the VLANs on the ToR switches in POD 2. These match the VLANs you configured in Step
3 on the spine devices in POD 2.
ToR 1 and ToR 2:
set vlans VLAN-1 vlan-id 1
set vlans VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set interfaces ae1 native-vlan-id 4094
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-1
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-2

342
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-3
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members VLAN-4
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric Connectivity With Route Reflector Cluster
and ToR Devices
This section shows CLI commands you can use to verify connectivity between the collapsed spine
devices and the route reflector cluster, and between the collapsed spine devices and the ToR devices.
For brevity, this section includes verifying connectivity on the spine devices using only Spine 3 and
Spine 4 in POD 2. You can use the same commands on the spine devices (Spine 1 and Spine 2) in POD 1.
1. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the route reflector devices toward the four
collapsed spine devices. On each route reflector device, aeX connects to Spine X).
RR 1:
user@rr-1> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/46 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/46 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/62 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/62 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/46 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/62 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae2
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/9 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/9 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/10 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/10 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/9 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/10 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing

343
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/49 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/49 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/58 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/58 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/49 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/58 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae4
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/34:2 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/34:2 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/34:3 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/34:3 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/34:2 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-0/0/34:3 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
RR 2:
user@rr-2> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/18 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/18 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/35 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/35 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/18 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/35 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae2
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/13 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/13 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/14 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/14 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State

344
et-0/0/13 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/14 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/22 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/22 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/23 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/23 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/22 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/23 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae4
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/19 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/19 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/20 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/20 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/19 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/20 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
2. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and
Spine 4) toward the route reflector devices. Links ae1 and ae2 connect to route reflector devices RR 1
and RR 2, respectively, on both Spine 3 and Spine 4.
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show lacp interfaces ae1
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/1 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/1 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing

345
user@spine-3> show lacp interfaces ae2
Aggregated interface: ae2
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/7 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/7 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/8 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/8 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/7 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/8 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Spine 4:
user@spine-4> show lacp interfaces ae1
Aggregated interface: ae1
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/3:2 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/3:2 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/3:3 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/3:3 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/3:2 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-0/0/3:3 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
user@spine-4> show lacp interfaces ae2
Aggregated interface: ae2
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
et-0/0/19 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/19 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/20 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
et-0/0/20 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
et-0/0/19 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
et-0/0/20 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
3. Verify connectivity on the aggregated Ethernet links on the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and
Spine 4) toward the multihomed ToR switches. Links ae3 and ae10 connect to ToR 1 and ToR 2,
respectively, on both Spine 3 and Spine 4, so this command line filters the output to find link states
starting with ae3. The output is truncated to show status only for the relevant links.

346
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show lacp interfaces | find ae3
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/22:0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/22:0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/22:0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/22:0 Not-Running NA NA NA
...
Aggregated interface: ae10
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/23:0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/23:0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/23:0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/23:0 Not-Running NA NA NA
...
Spine 4:
user@spine-3> show lacp interfaces | find ae3
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/4:2 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/4:2 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/4:2 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/4:2 Not-Running NA NA NA

347
...
Aggregated interface: ae10
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/6:1 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/6:1 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/6:1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/6:1 Not-Running NA NA NA
...
4. Verify that the spine devices in POD 2 (Spine 3 and Spine 4) detect the route reflector devices and
the ToR switches in POD 2 as LLDP neighbors. For the spine to ToR links, this verifies that the ESI
member links have been established to the multihomed ToR switches.
This sample command output is filtered and truncated to show only the relevant aggregated Ethernet
links. Comment lines show the columns for the values displayed in the resulting output. See Figure
68 on page 320 again, which shows that both spine switches in POD 2 use ae1 and ae2 to link to the
route reflector devices, ae3 to link to ToR1, and ae10 to link to ToR 2.
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show lldp neighbors | grep ae
#Local Interface Parent Interface Chassis Id Port info System Name
et-0/0/0 ae1 54:4b:8c:cd:e4:38 et-0/0/58 rr-1
et-0/0/1 ae1 54:4b:8c:cd:e4:38 et-0/0/49 rr-1
et-0/0/7 ae2 c0:bf:a7:ca:53:c0 et-0/0/22 rr-2
et-0/0/8 ae2 c0:bf:a7:ca:53:c0 et-0/0/23 rr-2
et-0/0/22:0 ae3 10:0e:7e:b0:a1:40 xe-0/0/26 tor-1
...
xe-0/0/23:0 ae10 20:d8:0b:14:72:00 xe-0/0/1 tor-2
...

348
Spine 4:
user@spine-3> show lldp neighbors | grep ae
#Local Interface Parent Interface Chassis Id Port info System Name
xe-0/0/3:2 ae1 54:4b:8c:cd:e4:38 xe-0/0/34:2 rr-1
xe-0/0/3:3 ae1 54:4b:8c:cd:e4:38 xe-0/0/34:3 rr-1
et-0/0/19 ae2 c0:bf:a7:ca:53:c0 et-0/0/19 rr-2
et-0/0/20 ae2 c0:bf:a7:ca:53:c0 et-0/0/20 rr-2
xe-0/0/4:2 ae3 10:0e:7e:b0:a1:40 xe-0/0/27 tor-1
...
xe-0/0/6:1 ae10 20:d8:0b:14:72:00 xe-0/0/27 tor-2
...
Verify Collapsed Spine Fabric BGP Underlay and EVPN-VXLAN Overlay
Configuration
This section shows CLI commands you can use to verify the underlay and overlay are working for the
collapsed spine devices integrated with the route reflector cluste. Refer to Figure 68 on page 320 and
Figure 69 on page 329 again for the configured underlay and overlay parameters.
For brevity, this section includes verifying connectivity on the spine devices using only Spine 3 and
Spine 4 in POD 2. You can use the same commands on the spine devices (Spine 1 and Spine 2) in POD 1.
1. Verify on the route reflector devices that the EBGP and IBGP peering is established and traffic paths
with the four spine devices are active. This sample command output is filtered to show only the
relevant status lines showing the established peering. Comment lines show the columns for the
values displayed in the resulting output.
RR 1:
user@rr-1> show bgp summary | match Estab
# Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Damped...
# underlay BGP peerings
172.16.1.1 4200000011 3758 3767 0 0 1d 4:38:36 Establ
172.16.2.1 4200000012 129 131 0 5 56:59 Establ
172.16.3.1 4200000013 3802 3773 0 0 1d 4:41:03 Establ
172.16.4.1 4200000014 3791 3762 0 0 1d 4:36:06 Establ

349
...
# overlay BGP peerings
192.168.1.1 4210000001 980683 4088207 0 0 1d 4:38:32 Establ
192.168.1.2 4210000001 27145 154826 0 5 56:58 Establ
192.168.1.3 4210000001 2696563 2953756 0 0 1d 4:41:02 Establ
192.168.1.4 4210000001 2640667 3000173 0 0 1d 4:36:04 Establ
...
RR 2:
user@rr-2> show bgp summary | match Estab
# Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Damped...
# underlay BGP peerings
172.16.5.1 4200000011 3748 3763 0 0 1d 4:37:57 Establ
172.16.6.1 4200000012 131 131 0 5 56:16 Establ
172.16.7.1 4200000013 3796 3765 0 0 1d 4:39:01 Establ
172.16.8.1 4200000014 3788 3756 0 0 1d 4:35:27 Establ
...
# overlay BGP peerings
192.168.1.1 4210000001 980619 4085507 0 0 1d 4:37:55 Establ
192.168.1.2 4210000001 27074 154082 0 5 56:14 Establ
192.168.1.3 4210000001 2695621 2952494 0 0 1d 4:38:59 Establ
192.168.1.4 4210000001 2640070 2998889 0 0 1d 4:35:25 Establ
...
2. Verify on the spine devices in POD 2 that the underlay EBGP and overlay IBGP peerings are
established. This sample command output is filtered to show only the relevant status lines showing
the established peering. Comment lines show the columns for the values displayed in the resulting
output.
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show bgp summary | match Estab
# Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Damped...
172.16.3.0 4200000021 3761 3788 0 1 1d 4:35:08 Establ
172.16.7.0 4200000022 3755 3783 0 1 1d 4:33:44 Establ
...
192.168.2.1 4210000001 2942193 2685492 0 1 1d 4:35:06 Establ
192.168.2.2 4210000001 2941362 2685039 0 1 1d 4:33:43 Establ

350
Spine 4:
user@spine-4> show bgp summary | match Estab
# Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Damped...
172.16.4.0 4200000021 3746 3773 0 0 1d 4:28:12 Establ
172.16.8.0 4200000022 3742 3771 0 0 1d 4:28:12 Establ
...
192.168.2.1 4210000001 2986192 2627487 0 0 1d 4:28:10 Establ
192.168.2.2 4210000001 2985323 2627487 0 0 1d 4:28:10 Establ
3. Verify the endpoint destination IP addresses for the remote VTEP interfaces, which are the loopback
addresses of the other three spine devices in POD 1 and POD 2 of this collapsed spine topology. We
include sample output for Spine 3 in POD 2 here; results are similar on the other spine devices.
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show interfaces vtep | match Remote
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.4, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.1, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
VXLAN Endpoint Type: Remote, VXLAN Endpoint Address: 192.168.1.2, L2 Routing Instance:
default-switch, L3 Routing Instance: default
4. Verify the ESI-LAGs on the spine devices toward the ToR switches. We include sample output here
for Spine 3 in POD 2 here; results are similar on the other spine devices.
Spine 3:
user@spine-3> show evpn instance extensive
Instance: __default_evpn__
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.3:0
Number of bridge domains: 0
Number of neighbors: 1
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-
Peer
192.168.1.4 0 0 0 0 2
Instance: default-switch
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.1.3:3333
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
Duplicate MAC detection threshold: 5

351
Duplicate MAC detection window: 180
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 5 9
MAC+IP advertisements: 21 21
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 8 0
Number of local interfaces: 3 (3 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
.local..5 00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00:00 single-homed Up Root
ae10.0 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:01:00:0a all-active Up Root
ae3.0 00:00:00:ff:00:02:00:01:00:03 all-active Up Root
Number of IRB interfaces: 4 (4 up)
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
irb.1 100001 Up VRF-T2-1
irb.2 100002 Up VRF-T2-1
irb.3 100003 Up VRF-T2-1
irb.4 100004 Up VRF-T2-1
Number of protect interfaces: 0
Number of bridge domains: 4
VLAN Domain-ID Intfs/up IRB-intf Mode MAC-sync IM-label v4-SG-sync IM-
core-NH v6-SG-sync IM-core-NH Trans-ID
1 100001 2 2 irb.1 Extended Enabled 100001
Disabled Disabled 100001
2 100002 2 2 irb.2 Extended Enabled 100002
Disabled Disabled 100002
3 100003 2 2 irb.3 Extended Enabled 100003
Disabled Disabled 100003
4 100004 2 2 irb.4 Extended Enabled 100004
Disabled Disabled 100004
Number of neighbors: 1
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-
Peer
192.168.1.4 9 21 8 4 0
Number of ethernet segments: 6
ESI: 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:01:00:0a
Status: Resolved by IFL ae10.0
Local interface: ae10.0, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 0 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.1.4
Backup forwarder: 192.168.1.3
Last designated forwarder update: Apr 09 13:13:20

352
ESI: 00:00:00:ff:00:02:00:01:00:03
Status: Resolved by IFL ae3.0
Local interface: ae3.0, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 100001 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.1.4
Backup forwarder: 192.168.1.3
Last designated forwarder update: Apr 09 13:13:20
ESI: 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:01:86:a1:00
Local interface: irb.1, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 100001 0 all-active
ESI: 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:01:86:a2:00
Local interface: irb.2, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 100002 0 all-active
ESI: 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:01:86:a3:00
Local interface: irb.3, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 100003 0 all-active
ESI: 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:01:86:a4:00
Local interface: irb.4, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.1.4 100004 0 all-active
Router-ID: 192.168.1.3
SMET Forwarding: Disabled
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Data Center Fabric Reference Design Overview and Validated Topology | 49
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation | 236
Multihoming an IP-Connected End System Design and Implementation | 281

353
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence
Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding Instance | 353
Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist | 355
Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence | 358
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature — Release History | 360
By default, EVPN-VXLAN devices import and advertise EVPN Type 2 routes (MAC with IP
advertisement routes) for ESI MAC address control plane learning. You can also enable the devices to
import and advertise EVPN Type 5 routes (IP prefix routes) in a virtual routing and forwarding (VRF)
instance using the ip-prefix-routes statement at the [edit routing-instances name protocols evpn] hierarchy
level. With Type 5 routes enabled, the device will learn how to reach an IP host address from both a
Type 2 route (the IP portion) and from a Type 5 route for the same prefix.
When the device learns either type of route for the same destination, it stores both as separate routes,
so Type 2 and Type 5 routes might coexist for a VRF. You can configure the VRF with different import
and export VRF route targets to prevent importing local Type 5 routes back into the device (essentially
preventing coexistence entirely).
However, in some cases, you might want to accept coexisting routes for local or remote destinations.
You can also apply routing policies to prevent the device from importing Type 2 or Type 5 host routes
for particular prefixes or destinations.
Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence in a Virtual Routing and Forwarding
Instance
IN THIS SECTION
Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Algorithm | 354

354
Limitations with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Feature | 354
In a large data center with an edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay fabric, Type 2 and Type 5 route
coexistence can strain the device’s Packet Forwarding Engine (PFE) next-hop resources. Also, the device
performs better in certain cases if it can prefer one type of route over the other. As a result, we provide
a Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence preference feature on supported platforms and releases. With
this feature, when the device accepts coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes, the device applies a route
preference algorithm by default. According to the preference algorithm, the device assigns only one type
of route for the same destination prefix as the active route.
See EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN in the EVPN User Guide for more
on this feature and the default preference algorithm.
Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Algorithm
When you configure the device to accept coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes for a VRF, the device
applies the following preference algorithm on imported routes:
• If the device learns a Type 2 route for a destination and doesn’t have a matching prefix Type 5 route,
it installs the Type 2 route.
• If the device learns a Type 5 route for a local ESI Type 2 route (a local host route) for the same prefix,
it installs the Type 2 route.
• If the device learns a Type 5 route and has a matching Type 2 entry for a non-local interface, it
installs the Type 5 route instead (and it deletes the Type 2 entry).
Essentially, if Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist for the same prefix, the algorithm prefers Type 2 routes
for local interfaces and prefers Type 5 routes for all other destinations. The device deletes non-local
destination Type 2 route entries from the PFE when it installs a Type 5 route for the same prefix, saving
next-hop table space in the PFE.
Limitations with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Feature
The following sections describe some routing behavior limitations or constraints in a routing instance
with the Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence feature.
Routing Over an IRB Interface for BGP with EBGP
EBGP protocol is designed to establish peering between directly-connected interface addresses, so the
EBGP message default time-to-live (TTL) is 1 (which corresponds to one next hop). In EBGP

355
configurations with Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence, the device prefers Type 5 routes for remote
destination hosts. When the device routes a packet over an IRB interface for a Type 5 route tunnel, the
routing might require more hops than traffic bridged or routed locally using Type 2 routes.
To ensure successful routing over IRB interfaces in EBGP configurations with Type 2 and Type 5 route
coexistence, you must set the multihop option with a TTL value of 2 or more in the EBGP peer group
configuration, as follows:
set routing-instances VRF-instance protocols bgp group BGP-peer-group-name multihop ttl 2
Routing Over an IRB Interface with IS-IS or OSPF
To ensure successful routing over IRB interfaces for destination hosts where the device resolves those
routes using IS-IS or OSPF, you can’t allow Type 2 and Type 5 routes to coexist. ISIS and OSPF are link
state protocols that expect peers to be directly connected. The device should not route IS-IS or OSPF
control packets and should use Type 2 routes. When Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist, the device must
prefer the Type 2 route. As a result, in this case, define and apply a routing policy to avoid importing
Type 5 routes for those host routes.
See the sample policies in:
• Step 6 in "Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist" on page 355.
• EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN in the EVPN User Guide
These policies filter and don’t import routes for specific host addresses or prefixes.
DHCP Relay Recommendation with Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence
In a VRF instance with DHCP relay enabled and Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist, you should disable
snooping in the DHCP relay configuration, as follows:
set routing-instances VRF-instance forwarding-options dhcp-relay no-snoop
Configure Type 2 and Type 5 Routes to Coexist
To configure a VRF to have coexisting Type 2 and Type 5 routes, enable Type 5 routing (IP prefix routes)
and ensure the device uses the same import and export VRF route targets in the routing instance. You
also apply a routing policy in the instance for the host routes that you want the device to import or

356
advertise. See EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence with EVPN-VXLAN for more on policy
options you might want to configure with this feature.
The following example configuration enables Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence on a leaf device in
the ERB overlay fabric introduced in "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on
page 236. You can use the same general configuration from that ERB reference design example. The
configuration here corresponds to the Type 5 route configuration on Leaf 10 in VRF_3. Refer to the
steps there where we set the host routes export routing policy and enable Type 5 routes in routing
instance VRF_3.
1. Configure a policy called EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES to match on and accept /32 and /128 host routes
(these correspond to all host routes). Include direct routes and static routes in the policy too.
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 from route-filter
0.0.0.0/0 prefix-length-range /32-/32
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_1 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_2 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_2 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_3 from protocol static
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_3 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from family inet6
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from protocol evpn
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 from route-filter 0::0/0
prefix-length-range /128-/128
set policy-options policy-statement EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES term TERM_4 then accept
2. Configure a tenant VRF routing instance VRF_3 for VNI_50000. (In the configuration in "Edge-
Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236, you can apply a similar step for
VNI_60000 and irb.600 in VRF_3, and VNI_70000 and VNI_80000 in VRF_4.)
set routing-instances VRF_3 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF_3 interface irb.500
set routing-instances VRF_3 interface lo0.3
set routing-instances VRF_3 route-distinguisher 192.168.1.10:500
set routing-instances VRF-3 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-3 routing-options rib VRF-3.inet6.0 multipath
3. Enable Type 5 routes (IP prefix routes ) in VRF_3. Apply the EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES routing policy
from step 1. Make sure that Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist by setting the import and export route

357
targets to the same value. Supported devices apply the coexistence route preference algorithm when
importing and installing routes.
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes export EXPORT_HOST_ROUTES
set routing-instances VRF_3 vrf-target import target:62273:50000
set routing-instances VRF_3 vrf-target export target:62273:50000
NOTE: You can configure the vrf-target route-target-value statement at the [edit routing-
instances name] hierarchy without specifying separate import and export target options. In
that case, if you’ve enabled Type 5 routes in the instance, the configuration applies the
same route target value for import or export (advertisement) actions, which enables
Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence. Here we explicitly set the same route target using
import and export options to show clearly that Type 2 and Type 5 routes coexist.
4. (Required on ACX7100 routers only) Set the reject-asymmetric-vni option in the VRF routing instances
where you enable Type 5 IP prefix routes. This option configures the device to reject EVPN Type 5
route advertisements with asymmetric VNIs—the device doesn’t accept traffic from the control plane
with a received VNI that doesn’t match the locally configured VNI. We support only symmetric VNI
routes on these devices.
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes reject-asymmetric-vni
5. (For a VRF instance that learns host IP addresses using EBGP) To support routing over IRB interfaces
with Type 2 and Type 5 coexistence for hosts that use EBGP, you must set the multihop option with a
TTL value of 2 or more in the EBGP peer group configuration. (See "Routing Over an IRB Interface
for BGP with EBGP" on page 354 for more on this use case.)
For example:
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols bgp group EBGP-peer-group-name multihop ttl 2
6. (For a VRF instance that learns host IP addresses using IS-IS or OSPF) To support routing over IRB
interfaces for hosts that use IS-IS or OSPF, ensure the instance always prefers Type 2 routes for
those hosts. In other words, prevent Type 2 and Type 5 route coexistence for only those host IP
addresses. (See "Routing Over an IRB Interface with IS-IS or OSPF" on page 355 for more on this
limitation.)

358
To do this, define and apply a routing policy in the VRF instance that avoids importing Type 5 routes
for those host IP addresses. For example, in the configuration for VRF_3, to filter out Type 5 routes
for a host with IP address 10.1.4.106:
set policy-options policy-statement RejectType5HostRoutes term 1 from route-filter
10.1.4.106/32 exact
set policy-options policy-statement RejectType5HostRoutes term 1 then reject
set policy-options policy-statement RejectType5HostRoutes term 2 then accept
set routing-instances VRF_3 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes import RejectType5HostRoutes
Verify Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence
To verify the coexistence preference algorithm stores only the preferred routes with Type 2 and Type 5
route coexistence, use the following commands.
These sample commands use the ERB overlay fabric configured in "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
Design and Implementation" on page 236 on Leaf 10 with:
• MAC-VRF instance: MAC-VRF-1
• Tenant VRF: VRF_3
• A local host with IP address 10.1.4.101
• A remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102
These commands check routes to a remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102 on an Ethernet segment on
another leaf device in the fabric. Leaf 10 has a host with IP address 10.1.4.101.
1. Enter the show arp no-resolve command to check that the remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102
doesn’t appear in the ARP table. The device is saving next hop space in the PFE by avoiding installing
both Type 2 and Type 5 routes for the same remote destination.
user@Leaf-10> show arp no-resolve interface irb.500
MAC Address Address Interface Flags
ba:41:5f:01:e2:01 10.1.4.101 irb.500[ ae3.0 ] permanent remote
fc:96:43:eb:63:33 10.1.4.2 irb.500[ .local..1408 ] permanent remote
00:31:46:7b:e1:18 10.1.4.3 irb.500[ .local..1408 ] permanent remote
ec:3e:f7:89:15:1a 10.1.4.4 irb.500[ .local..1408 ] permanent remote

359
2. Enter the show ethernet-switching mac-ip-table command to see routes for the remote host. When Type
2 and Type 5 routes coexist, the RTS flag in the Flags output field means the device skipped adding a
Type 2 route in favor of a Type 5 route with a matching prefix.
Here, the output includes the RTS flag for the remote host with IP address 10.1.4.102, so the Type 5
route is the preferred route.
user@Leaf-10> show ethernet-switching mac-ip-table instance MAC-VRF-1 vlan-name VNI_50000
ba:42:5f:01:e2:01
MAC IP flags (S - Static, D - Dynamic, L - Local , R - Remote, Lp - Local Proxy,
Rp - Remote Proxy, K - Kernel, RT - Dest Route, (N)AD - (Not) Advt to remote,
RE - Re-ARP/ND, RO - Router, OV - Override, Ur - Unresolved,
RTS - Dest Route Skipped, RGw - Remote Gateway, FU - Fast Update)
Routing instance : MAC-VRF-1
Bridging domain : VNI_50000
IP MAC Flags Logical
Active
address address Interface
source
10.1.4.102 ba:42:5f:01:e2:01 DR,K,RTS esi.234220
00:00:00:ff:00:02:00:01:00:03
2001:db8::10:1:4:102 ba:42:5f:01:e2:01 DR,K,RTS esi.234220
00:00:00:ff:00:02:00:01:00:03
3. Enter the show route forwarding-table ... extensive command to see Type 5 route forwarding entries for
the tenant VRF instance VRF_3.
The Flags field includes the VxLAN Local flag when the route is a Type 5 local route that the device
preferred over a learned Type 2 route for the same destination.
user@Leaf-10> show route forwarding-table destination 10.1.4.102 vpn VRF_3 extensive
Routing table: VRF_3.inet [Index: 1597]
Internet:
Destination: 10.1.4.102/32
Route type: user
Route reference: 0 Route interface-index: 0
Multicast RPF nh index: 0
P2mpidx: 0
Flags: rt nh decoupled, VxLAN Local
Next-hop type: unilist Index: 13236 Reference: 1

360
Next-hop type: composite Index: 15829 Reference: 1
.
.
.
4. Enter the show route ... extensive command to check that the (preferred) Type 5 route for the remote
host is in the routing table. The State field in the output with the extensive option includes
VxlanLocalRT for Type 5 routes. This is similar to the forwarding table output in the previous step
where the VXLAN Local flag indicate the device preferred and stored the Type 5 local route instead of
the Type 2 route.
user@Leaf-10> show route 10.1.4.102 table VRF_3.inet.0 extensive
VRF_3.inet.0: 28 destinations, 68 routes (28 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
10.1.4.102/32 (3 entries, 1 announced)
State: <CalcForwarding>
TSI:
KRT in-kernel 10.1.4.102/32 -> -> {list:composite(15829), composite(15828)}
@EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x286ccd9c
.
.
.
Indirect next hop: 0x1fc89b08 15827 INH Session ID: 4104
State: <Active Int Ext VxlanLocalRT>
Age: 31:22 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
.
.
.
EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Preference Feature —
Release History
Table 11 on page 361 provides a history of the feature in this section and its support within this
reference design.

361
Table 11: EVPN Type 2 and Type 5 Route Coexistence Implementation– Release History
Release Description
21.4R2 MX Series, QFX5110, QFX5120, and QFX10000
Series devices running Junos OS Release 21.4R2 and
later releases in ERB overlay reference architectures.
21.4R2-EVO ACX7100-48L, PTX10001, PTX10004, PTX10008,
PTX10016, and QFX5130-32CD devices running
Junos OS Evolved Release 21.4R2 and later releases in
ERB overlay reference architectures.
Data Center Interconnect Design and
Implementation Using Type 5 Routes
IN THIS SECTION
Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 361
Data Center Interconnect Using EVPN Type 5 Routes
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces | 364
Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine Devices and the
Backbone Devices | 366
Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device | 370
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices | 375

362
Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes | 377
Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating | 381
DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History | 386
EVPN Type 5 routes, also known as IP prefix routes, are used in a DCI context to pass traffic between
data centers that are using different IP address subnetting schemes.
In this reference architecture, EVPN Type 5 routes are exchanged between spine devices in different
data centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers.
Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before EVPN Type 5 messages can be sent
across data centers. This physical connectivity is provided by backbone devices in a WAN cloud. A
backbone device is connected to each spine device in a single data center and participates in the overlay
IBGP and underlay EBGP sessions. EBGP also runs in a separate BGP group to connect the backbone
devices to each other; EVPN signaling is enabled in this BGP group.
Figure 71 on page 363 shows two data centers using EVPN Type 5 routes for DCI.

363
Figure 71: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes Topology Overview
For additional information on EVPN Type 5 routes, see EVPN Type-5 Route with VXLAN encapsulation
for EVPN-VXLAN.
All procedures in this section assume that EVPN Type 2 routes are successfully being passed in the data
centers. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172 for setup
instructions.

364
This section covers the processes for configuring a DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes, and includes the
following procedures:
Configuring Backbone Device Interfaces
The backbone devices in this architecture are part of the WAN cloud and must provide connectivity
both to the spine devices in each data center as well as to the other backbone device. This connectivity
must be established before EVPN Type 5 routes can be exchanged between spine devices in different
data centers.
Figure 72 on page 364 provides an overview of the IP addresses that are configured in these steps.
Figure 72: IP Address Summary for Backbone and Spine Devices
To configure the spine device and backbone device interfaces:
Set up the interfaces and assign IP addresses:

365
• (Aggregated Ethernet interfaces) Configure the aggregated Ethernet interfaces on the spine device
switches in Data Centers 1 and 2 and on the backbone devices.
This step shows the assignment of the IP address to the aggregated Ethernet interfaces only. For
complete step-by-step instructions on creating aggregated Ethernet interfaces, see Configuring Link
Aggregation.
Spine Device 1 in Data Center 1:
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.101.1/31
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.102.1/31
Spine Device 3 in Data Center 1:
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.103.1/31
Spine Device 4 in Data Center 1:
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.1/31
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.105.3/31
Spine Device 6 in Data Center 2:
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.106.3/31
Backbone Device 1:
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.101.0/31
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.102.0/31
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.103.0/31
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.0/31
set interfaces ae200 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.200.0/31

366
Backbone Device 2:
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.105.2/31
set interfaces ae6 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.106.2/31
set interfaces ae200 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.200.1/31
• (Standalone interfaces that are not included in aggregated Ethernet interfaces) See Configuring the
Interface Address.
Enabling EBGP as the Underlay Network Routing Protocol Between the Spine
Devices and the Backbone Devices
EBGP is used as the routing protocol of the underlay network in this reference design. The backbone
devices must participate in EBGP with the spine devices to support underlay connectivity.
The process for enabling EBGP on the spine and leaf devices is covered in the "IP Fabric Underlay
Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 section of this guide. This procedure assumes EBGP
has already been enabled on the spine and leaf devices, although some EBGP configuration on the spine
devices needs to be updated to support backbone devices and is therefore included in these steps.
EBGP works in this reference design by assigning each leaf, spine, and backbone device into it’s own
unique 32-bit autonomous system (AS) number.
Figure 73 on page 367 shows an overview of the EBGP topology for the spine and backbone devices
when backbone devices are included in the reference design.

367
Figure 73: EBGP Topology with Backbone Devices
Figure 74 on page 368 illustrates the EBGP protocol parameters that are configured in this procedure.
Repeat this process for the other devices in the topology to enable EBGP on the remaining devices.

368
Figure 74: EBGP Configuration in a Backbone Topology
To enable EBGP to support the underlay network in this reference design:
1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.
All Spine and Backbone Devices:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP type external
2. Configure the ASN for each device in the underlay.
In this reference design, every device is assigned a unique ASN in the underlay network. The ASN for
EBGP in the underlay network is configured at the BGP peer group level using the local-as statement
because the system ASN setting is used for MP-IBGP signaling in the overlay network.

369
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP local-as 4200000002
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP local-as 4200000005
Backbone Device 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP local-as 4200000021
Backbone Device 2:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP local-as 4200000022
3. Configure BGP peers by specifying the ASN of each BGP peer in the underlay network on each spine
and backbone device.
In this reference design, the backbone devices peer with every spine device in the connected data
center and the other backbone device.
The spine devices peer with the backbone device that connects them into the WAN cloud.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.102.0 peer-as 4200000021
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.105.2 peer-as 4200000022
Backbone Device 1:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.101.1 peer-as 4200000001
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.102.1 peer-as 4200000002
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.103.1 peer-as 4200000003
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.104.1 peer-as 4200000004

370
Backbone Device 2:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.105.3 peer-as 4200000005
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP neighbor 172.16.106.3 peer-as 4200000006
4. Create a routing policy that identifies and includes the loopback interface in EBGP routing table
updates and apply it.
This export routing policy is applied and is used to advertise loopback interface reachability to all
devices in the IP Fabric in the overlay network.
Each Spine Device and Backbone Device:
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP export underlay-clos-export
5. Enable multipath to ensure all routes are installed and shared in the forwarding table.
Each Spine Device and Backbone Device:
set protocols bgp group UNDERLAY-BGP multipath multiple-as
Enabling IBGP for the Overlay Network on the Backbone Device
The backbone devices must run IBGP to have overlay network connectivity and be able to support DCI
using EVPN Type 5 routes.
Figure 75 on page 371 shows the IBGP configuration of the validated reference design when backbone
devices are included in the topology. In the validated reference design, all spine and leaf devices in the
same data center are assigned into the same autonomous system. The backbone devices are assigned
into the same autonomous system as the spine and leaf devices of the data center that is using the
backbone device as the entry point into the WAN cloud.

371
Figure 75: IBGP Overview with Backbone Devices
Figure 76 on page 372 illustrates the route reflector configuration in the validated reference design. One
route reflector cluster—cluster ID 192.168.2.10—includes backbone device 1 as the route reflector and
all spine devices in data center 1 as route reflector clients. Another route reflector cluster—cluster ID
192.168.2.11—includes backbone device 2 as the route reflector and all spine devices in data center 2
as route reflector clients.

372
Figure 76: IBGP Route Reflector Topology
The validated reference design supports multiple hierarchical route reflectors, where one cluster
includes backbone devices acting as route reflectors for the spine device clients and another cluster
includes spine devices acting as route reflectors for leaf device clients. To see the configuration steps for
configuring the other route reflector, see "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97.
Figure 77 on page 373 shows the full hierarchical route reflector topology when two data centers are
connected:

373
Figure 77: Hierarchical IBGP Route Reflector Topology
For more information on BGP route reflectors, see Understanding BGP Route Reflectors.
This procedure assumes IBGP has been enabled for the spine and leaf devices as detailed in "Configure
IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97. The spine device configurations are included in this procedure to
illustrate their relationships to the backbone devices.
To setup IBGP connectivity for the backbone devices:
1. Configure an AS number for overlay IBGP. All leaf and spine devices in the same data center are
configured into the same AS. The backbone devices are configured into the same AS as the spine and
leaf devices in the data centers using the backbone device as the entry point into the WAN cloud.
Backbone Device 1 and All Spine and Leaf Devices in Data Center 1:
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001
Backbone Device 2 and All Spine and Leaf Devices in Data Center 2:
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000002

374
2. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on the backbone devices. Form the route reflector clusters
(cluster IDs 192.168.2.10 and 192.168.2.11) and configure BGP multipath and MTU Discovery.
Backbone Device 1:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP local-address 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP cluster 192.168.2.10
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP multipath
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.4
Backbone Device 2:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP local-address 192.168.2.2
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP cluster 192.168.2.11
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP multipath
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.5
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP neighbor 192.168.0.6
3. Configure IBGP using EVPN signaling on the spine devices. Enable BGP multipath and MTU
Discovery.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 Example:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR local-address 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR vpn-apply-export
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR multipath
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR neighbor 192.168.2.1

375
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2 Example:
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR type internal
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR local-address 192.168.0.5
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR vpn-apply-export
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR multipath
set protocols bgp group OVERLAY-BGP-TO-RR neighbor 192.168.2.2
Enabling EBGP as the Routing Protocol Between the Backbone Devices
EBGP is also used as the routing protocol between the backbone devices in this reference design. The
backbone devices are connected using IP and the backbone devices must be configured as EBGP peers.
A second EBGP group—BACKBONE-BGP—is created in these steps to enable EBGP between the
backbone devices. Each backbone device is assigned into a unique 32-bit AS number within the new
EBGP group in these steps. The backbone devices, therefore, are part of two EBGP groups—
UNDERLAY-BGP and BACKBONE-BGP—and have a unique AS number within each group. EVPN
signaling, which has to run to support EVPN between the backbone devices, is also configured within
the EBGP group during this procedure.
Figure 78 on page 376 illustrates the attributes needed to enable EBGP between the backbone devices.

376
Figure 78: EBGP Topology for Backbone Device Connection
To enable EBGP as the routing protocol between the backbone devices:
1. Create and name the BGP peer group. EBGP is enabled as part of this step.
Both Backbone Devices:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP type external
2. Configure the ASN for each backbone device.
Backbone Device 1:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP local-as 4200000101

377
Backbone Device 2:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP local-as 4200000102
3. Configure the backbone devices as BGP peers.
Backbone Device 1:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP neighbor 172.16.200.1 peer-as 4200000102
Backbone Device 2:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP neighbor 172.16.200.0 peer-as 4200000101
4. Enable EVPN signaling between the backbone devices:
Both Backbone Devices:
set protocols bgp group BACKBONE-BGP family evpn signaling
Configuring DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes
EVPN Type 5 messages are exchanged between IRB interfaces on spine devices in different data centers
when EVPN Type 5 routes are used for DCI. These IRB interfaces are configured in a routing instance.
Each data center has a unique virtual network identifier (VNI 102001 and 202001) in this configuration,
but both VNIs are mapped to the same VLAN (VLAN 2001) in the same routing instance (VRF 501).
See Figure 79 on page 378 for an illustration of the routing instance.

378
Figure 79: DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes
To enable DCI using EVPN Type 5 routes:

379
NOTE: This procedure assumes that the routing instances, IRBs, & VLANs created earlier
in this guide are operational. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation" on page 172.
When implementing border leaf functionality on an MX router, keep in mind that the
router supports virtual switch instances only. MX routers do not support default
instances.
1. Configure the preferred addresses of the IRB interfaces.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
set interfaces irb unit 2001 family inet address 10.20.1.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:20:1:242/112 preferred
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set interfaces irb unit 2001 family inet address 10.30.1.245/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:30:1:245/112 preferred
2. Configure mapping between VLANs and the IRB interfaces.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
set vlans 2001 vlan-id 2001
set vlans 2001 l3-interface irb.2001
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set vlans 2001 vlan-id 2001
set vlans 2001 l3-interface irb.2001
3. Configure a routing instance, and map the IRB interface to this instance.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
set routing-instances VRF-501 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-501 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-501 interface lo0.501
set routing-instances VRF-501 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.2:501
set routing-instances VRF-501 vrf-target import target:200:501

380
set routing-instances VRF-501 vrf-target export target:100:501
set routing-instances VRF-501 routing-options rib VRF-501.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-501 routing-options multipath
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set routing-instances VRF-501 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-501 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-501 interface lo0.501
set routing-instances VRF-501 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.5:501
set routing-instances VRF-501 vrf-target import target:100:501
set routing-instances VRF-501 vrf-target export target:200:501
set routing-instances VRF-501 routing-options rib VRF-501.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-501 routing-options multipath
4. Configure the VRF instance to generate EVPN Type 5 Routes.
NOTE: The VNI of the local or remote data center—VNI 100501 or 200501 in this
reference architecture—must be entered as the VNI in the set routing-instances
VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni command.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 200501
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-501 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 100501
5. On QFX5xxx switches that function as spine devices, enable the chained composite next hop
feature. With this feature enabled, the switches can more efficiently process large amounts of EVPN
Type 5 routes by directing routes that share the same destination to a common forwarding next hop.
NOTE: On QFX10000 switches, this feature is enabled by default.

381
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1 and Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
set routing-options forwarding-table chained-composite-next-hop ingress evpn
Verifying That DCI Using EVPN Type 5 Routes is Operating
Enter the following commands to verify that traffic can be sent between data centers using EVPN Type
5 routes:
1. Verify that an EVPN Type 5 route has been received from the spine device in the other data center
by entering the show route table command. Enter the VRF instance number and the route
distinguisher in the command line to filter the results.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
user@spine-device-2> show route table VRF-501.evpn.0 match-prefix 5:192.168.0.5:501*
5:192.168.0.5:501::0::10.30.1.0::24/248
*[BGP/170] 07:52:25, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.102.0 via ae3.0
> to 172.16.102.2 via ae4.0
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
user@spine-device-5> show route table VRF-501.evpn.0 match-prefix 5:192.168.0.2:501*
VRF-501.evpn.0: 33 destinations, 49 routes (33 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
5:192.168.0.2:501::0::10.20.1.0::24/248
[BGP/170] 07:46:03, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.105.0 via ae3.0
to 172.16.105.2 via ae4.0
2. Verify that EVPN Type 5 routes are exported and imported in the VRF instance by entering the show
evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context command and specifying the VRF instance.

382
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
user@spine-device-2> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-501
L3 context: VRF-501
IPv4->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
10.20.1.0/24 Created
IPv6->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
2001:db8::10:20:1:0/112 Created
EVPN->IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
10.30.1.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.5:501 200501 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2 192.168.0.5
EVPN->IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2000::200:0:1:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.5:501 200501 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2 192.168.0.5
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
user@spine-device-5> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-501
L3 context: VRF-501
IPv4->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
10.30.1.0/24 Created
IPv6->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
2001:db8::10:30:1:0/112 Created

383
EVPN->IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
10.20.1.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.2:501 200501 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 192.168.0.2
EVPN->IPv6 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
2001:db8::10:20:1:0/112 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI
192.168.0.2:501 200501 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38 192.168.0.2
3. Verify the EVPN Type 5 route encapsulation details by entering the show route table command with
the extensive option.
Spine Device 2 in Data Center 1:
user@spine-device-2> show route table VRF-501.inet.0 match-prefix 10.30.1.0/24 extensive
VRF-501.inet.0: 21 destinations, 37 routes (21 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
10.30.1.0/24 (3 entries, 1 announced)
State: <CalcForwarding>
TSI:
KRT in-kernel 10.30.1.0/24 -> {list:composite(120781), composite(120780)}
@EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x2874fc70
Next-hop reference count: 11
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.102.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.102.2 via ae4.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.5
Composite next hop: 0x13f31948 120781 INH Session ID: 0x0
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 506
Encap VNI: 200501, Decap VNI: 200501
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.5
SMAC: 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38, DMAC: 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2
Indirect next hop: 0xfc5ae80 2101590 INH Session ID: 0x0

384
State: <Active Int Ext>
Age: 7:54:59 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-501-EVPN-L3-context
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.5
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.5
Composite next hop: 0x13f31948 120781 INH Session ID: 0x0
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 506
Encap VNI: 200501, Decap VNI: 200501
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.2, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.5
SMAC: 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38, DMAC: 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2
Indirect next hop: 0xfc5ae80 2101590 INH Session ID: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.102.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.102.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.5/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Nexthop: 172.16.102.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0
Nexthop: 172.16.102.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0
Spine Device 5 in Data Center 2:
user@spine-device-5> show route table VRF-501.inet.0 match-prefix 10.20.1.0/24 extensive
VRF-501.inet.0: 22 destinations, 39 routes (22 active, 0 holddown, 4 hidden)
10.20.1.0/24 (4 entries, 2 announced)
State: <CalcForwarding>
TSI:
KRT in-kernel 10.20.1.0/24 -> {list:composite(108574), composite(103341)}
Page 0 idx 0, (group Internet type External) Type 1 val 0x283c765c (adv_entry)
Advertised metrics:

385
Nexthop: Self
AS path: 4210000001 I
Communities:
Path 10.20.1.0 Vector len 4. Val: 0
@EVPN Preference: 170/-101
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x32a78cb0
Next-hop reference count: 9
Next hop type: Router, Next hop index: 0
Next hop: 172.16.105.0 via ae3.0, selected
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.105.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.2
Composite next hop: 0xfbc7e68 108574 INH Session ID: 0x0
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 506
Encap VNI: 200501, Decap VNI: 200501
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.5, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.2
SMAC: 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2, DMAC: 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38
Indirect next hop: 0xfc5d400 2103405 INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <Active Int Ext>
Age: 7:49:18 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: VRF-501-EVPN-L3-context
Announcement bits (2): 3-rt-export 4-BGP_RT_Background
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.2
Composite next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.2
Composite next hop: 0xfbc7e68 108574 INH Session ID: 0x0
VXLAN tunnel rewrite:
MTU: 0, Flags: 0x0
Encap table ID: 0, Decap table ID: 506
Encap VNI: 200501, Decap VNI: 200501
Source VTEP: 192.168.0.5, Destination VTEP: 192.168.0.2
SMAC: 0c:86:10:cd:bf:f2, DMAC: 54:4b:8c:cd:c4:38
Indirect next hop: 0xfc5d400 2103405 INH Session ID: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.105.0 via ae3.0

386
Session Id: 0x0
Next hop: 172.16.105.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.2/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Nexthop: 172.16.105.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0
Nexthop: 172.16.105.2 via ae4.0
Session Id: 0
DCI Using Type 5 Routes — Release History
Table 12 on page 386 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 12: DCI Using Type 5 Routes Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running
Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the
same release train support all features documented in
this section.
18.4R2-S2 QFX5110 and QFX5120-48Y switches, and MX
routers running Junos OS Release 18.4R2-S2 and later
releases in the same release train support all features
documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Understanding EVPN Pure Type-5 Routes
Configure IBGP for the Overlay
Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation

387
Data Center Interconnect Design and
Implementation Using IPVPN
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 389
Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN | 390
Data Center Interconnect—Release History | 391
This section describes how to configure DCI using IPVPN. We are using IPVPN to pass traffic between
data centers.
In this reference architecture, IPVPN routes are exchanged between spine devices in different data
centers to allow for the passing of traffic between data centers.
Physical connectivity between the data centers is required before IPVPN routes can be sent across data
centers. The backbone devices in a WAN cloud provide the physical connectivity. A backbone device is
connected to each spine device in a single data center and participates in the overlay IBGP and underlay
EBGP sessions. EBGP also runs in a separate BGP group to connect the backbone devices to each other;
EVPN signaling and IPVPN (inet-vpn) is enabled in this BGP group.
Figure 80 on page 388 shows two data centers using IPVPN for DCI.

388
Figure 80: Data Center Interconnect using IPVPN

389
Configuring Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN
Configuring DCI for IPVPN is similar to configuring DCI for EVPN Type 5 routes with the exceptions
shown in this section.
In this example, we are showing the configuration of IPVPN on Spine 1.
1. Configure the underlay link from the spine to the backbone.
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.104.3/31
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family mpls
2. On the backbone device, configure IBGP and MPLS for the overlay network. IPVPN requires that you
use MPLS.
set protocols bgp group IPVPN-BGP local-address 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group IPVPN-BGP neighbor 192.168.2.1 family inet unicast
set protocols bgp group IPVPN-BGP neighbor 192.168.2.1 family inet-vpn unicast
set protocols bgp group IPVPN-BGP neighbor 192.168.2.1 family inet6-vpn unicast
set protocols rsvp interface ae4.0
set protocols rsvp interface lo0.0
set protocols mpls label-switched-path SPINE01-TO-REMOTE-SPINE5 to 192.168.0.5
set protocols mpls label-switched-path SPINE01-TO-REMOTE-SPINE5 no-cspf
set protocols mpls label-switched-path SPINE01-TO-REMOTE-SPINE6 to 192.168.0.6
set protocols mpls label-switched-path SPINE01-TO-REMOTE-SPINE6 no-cspf
set protocols mpls interface ae4.0
set protocols mpls interface lo0.0
3. On the spine, configure a routing instance to support DCI using IPVPN routes. This routing instance
accepts L3VPN routes and also advertises data center routes as L3VPN routes to other IPVPN
provider edge routers.
set routing-instances VRF-601 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-601 interface irb.2401
set routing-instances VRF-601 interface irb.2402
set routing-instances VRF-601 interface irb.2403
set routing-instances VRF-601 interface irb.2404
set routing-instances VRF-601 interface lo0.601

390
set routing-instances VRF-601 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:601
set routing-instances VRF-601 vrf-target target:200:601
set routing-instances VRF-601 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-601 routing-options rib VRF-601.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-601 routing-options multipath
Verifying Data Center Interconnect Using IPVPN
1. Verify that data center routes are advertised as IPVPN routes to remote data centers.
host@SPINE-1> show interfaces terse irb.2401
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.2401 up up inet 30.1.145.244/24
30.1.145.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::30:0:191:244/112
2001:db8::30:0:191:254/112
fe80::e86:1009:61cd:bff2/64
host@SPINE-1> show route advertising-protocol bgp 192.168.2.1 table VRF-601.inet.0 match-
prefix 30.1.145.0 extensive
VRF-601.inet.0: 6091 destinations, 6115 routes (6091 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
* 30.1.145.0/24 (1 entry, 1 announced)
BGP group underlay-bgp type External
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.5:601
VPN Label: 18
Nexthop: Self
Flags: Nexthop Change
AS path: [4200000005] I
Communities: target:200:601
2. On Spine 4, verify that the remote data center accepts the routes as IPVPN routes.
host@SPINE-4> show route table VRF-601.inet.0 match-prefix 30.1.145.0
VRF-601.inet.0: 6447 destinations, 6752 routes (6447 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
30.1.145.0/24 *[BGP/170] 1d 01:40:26, localpref 100

391
AS path: 4200000004 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 192.16.0.1 via ae4.0, Push 18
[BGP/170] 23:48:18, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000005 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 192.16.0.2 via ae5.0, Push 18
Data Center Interconnect—Release History
Table 13 on page 391 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within this
reference design.
Table 13: DCI Using IPVPN Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release
train support DCI using IPVPN.
18.4R2-S2 MX routers running Junos OS Release 18.4R2-S2 and later releases in the same release train also
support DCI using IPVPN.
18.1R3-S5 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S5 and later releases in
the same release train also support DCI using IPVPN.
Configure VXLAN Stitching for Layer 2 Data Center
Interconnect
IN THIS SECTION
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN | 397
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN | 401

392
Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension | 402
Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN | 407
Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch Instance | 409
Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 413
Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance | 415
VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance | 419
Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-VRF | 421
Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance | 424
Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching | 428
Verify Host Route Support | 429
This document describes the configuration and validation steps for implementing Data Center
Interconnect (DCI) using VXLAN stitching in a gateway device. The VXLAN stitching feature enables you
to stitch together specific VXLAN Virtual Network Identifiers (VNIs) to provide Layer 2 stretch between
DCs on a granular basis.
Juniper Network’s switching and routing devices support a number of different DCI options. For
example, Over the Top (OTT) DCI can be used to extend the overlay between PODS. See OTT DCI for
details. One drawback to the OTT method is it extends all VLANs between the PODs, either at layer 2 or
Layer 3. Also, OTT DCI requires end-to-end VXLAN VNI significance. This can be an issue if two DC/
PODs are being merged that don’t have overlapping VLAN to VNI assignments.
In some cases you want a more granular control over which VLANs are extended between PODs. The
Junos VXLAN stitching feature allows you to perform DCI at the VNI level to extend Layer 2
connectivity on a per VLAN basis. Or, you might need to translate VNIs to accommodate instances
where the same VNIs are assigned to different VLANs in each POD. For example, take the case where
VLAN 1 is assigned VNI 10001 in POD 1, while in POD 2 the same VLAN is assigned to VNI 20002. In
this case you either have to reconfigure one of the PODs to achieve a global (overlapping) mapping of
VLANs to VNIs. Alternatively, you can employ translational stitching to map local POD VNI values to the
VNI used over the WAN.
Juniper Networks supports VXLAN stitching for both 3-stage and 5-stage IP fabrics. In addition, VXLAN
stitching is supported for centrally-routed bridging (CRB) overlay, edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay,
and bridged overlay architectures. This use case assumes that your EVPN-VXLAN POD fabrics are
already configured with leaves and spines using one or a combination of the supported architectures
shown in Table 14 on page 394.
To enable VXLAN stitched connectivity between the two PODs, you add a tier of WAN routers to
extend the underlay. The underlay extension extends the overlay between the PODs. Thenyou configure

393
VXLAN stitching on the gateway devices to extend the desired VLANs (now represented as VXLAN
VNIs), between the PODs.
NOTE: We use the term “WAN Routers” in this document. This doesn’t imply that you
have an actual WAN network between the PODs. The WAN routers might be local to
both PODs, as is the case in this example. You can also use VXLAN stitching over an
extended WAN network when the PODs are geographically remote.
Figure 81 on page 393 provides a high level diagram showing the POD/DC fabric types we validated in
this reference design.
Figure 81: VXLAN Stitching Reference Architectures
In Figure 81 on page 393, each WAN router connects to each gateway device in both PODs. These
connections and the related BGP peer sessions serve to extend the underlay between the two PODs.

394
Specifically, the devices advertise the loopback addresses of the gateway devices between the PODs.
This loopback reachability establishes an EBGP based peering session to extend the overlay between
the gateway devices in both pods.
POD 1 represents a 3-stage CRB architecture with the gateway function collapsed into the spine
devices. Thus, in POD 1 the terms spine and gateway are each applicable. In general we’ll use the term
gateway when describing the spine devices as the focus here is on their gateway functionality.
POD 2, in contrast, is a 5-stage ERB architecture with lean spines and discrete gateway devices. The
gateway devices in POD 2 can also be called super-spine or border leaf devices. In the context of this
example, they perform the VXLAN stitching functionality and so we refer to them as gateway devices.
Table 14 on page 394 outlines the POD architectures we validated as part of this reference design.
Table 14: Supported POD Architectures for VXLAN Stitching
POD 1 POD 2
Edge-Routed Bridging Edge-Routed Bridging
Centrally-Routed Bridging Edge-Routed Bridging
Centrally-Routed Bridging Centrally-Routed Bridging
Bridged Overlay Bridged Overlay
3 or 5 stage fabric 3 or 5 stage fabric
Other items to note when using VXLAN stitching include:
• You can combine the role of spine and gateway into a collapsed design as shown for POD 1.
• The stitched VNI can have the same value (global stitching) when the PODs have overlapping VLAN
to VNI assignments, or can be translated between the two PODs. The latter capability is useful when
merging PODs (DCs) that don’t have overlapping VNI to VLAN assignments.
• We support VXLAN stitching in the default-switch EVPN instance (EVI) and in MAC-VRF routing
instances.
• We support Layer 2 stitching for unicast and BUM traffic only. With BUM traffic, the designated
forwarder (DF) for the local gateway ESI LAG performs ingress replication and forwards a copy of the
BUM traffic to each remote gateway. At the remote gateway devices, the DF for the remote ESI LAG
performs ingress replication and sends a copy of the BUM traffic to all leaf nodes in the local POD.

395
• We recommend that you configure the IRB interfaces on the spine devices in a CRB fabric with the
proxy-macip-advertisement configuration statement. This option ensures correct ARP operation over a
CRB EVPN-VXLAN fabric and is part of the CRB reference architecture. See proxy-mac-ip-
advertisement for more information on this option.
Note the following about the EVPN–VXLAN fabric reference design:
• This example assumes that the tiers of spine and leaf devices in the two PODs already exist and are
up and running. As a result, this topic provides the configuration for the gateway to WAN router
EBGP underlay peering, the inter-POD EBGP overlay peering, and the configuration needed for
VXLAN stitching.
For information about configuring the spine and leaf devices in the two PODs, see the following:
• "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81
• "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97
• "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 172
• "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236
• "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142
• This example integrates the WAN routers into an existing two POD EVPN-VXLAN fabric. To keep the
focus on VXLAN stitching, both PODs in the example use the same 3-stage Clos fabric based on a
CRB architecture. In addition to their role as Layer 3 VXLAN gateways, the spines also perform the
VXLAN stitching function. The result is an example of a collapsed gateway architecture.
Figure 82 on page 396 shows the collapsed gateway CRB based VXLAN stitching example topology.

396
Figure 82: VXLAN Stitching Example Topology
In this example, you add the gateway functionality to a pre-existing CRB spine configuration. As
noted above, we also support 5-stage architectures with the super-spine layer performing the
gateway peering and stitching functions. We recommend using a discrete gateway device for
maximum scaling and performance. With a 3-stage or 5-stage ERB architecture, you add the gateway
configuration to the lean spine or super spine devices, respectively.
• When configuring the overlay BGP peering between the PODs, you can use either IBGP or EBGP.
Typically, you use IBGP if your data centers (PODs) use the same autonomous system (AS) number
and EBGP if your PODs use different AS numbers. Our example uses different AS numbers in each
POD, therefore EBGP peering is used to extend the overlay between the PODs.
• After you integrate the WAN routers to extend the underlay and overlay between the two PODs,
you configure translational VXLAN stitching to extend a given VLAN between the PODs.
Translational VXLAN stitching translates the VNI value used locally in each POD to a common VNI
value used across the WAN segment. Note that in our example, we assign VLAN 1 a different (non-
overlapping) VNI value in each POD. This is why we use translational stitching in this case. You

397
normally use global mode stitching when the same VNI value is mapped to the same VLAN in both
PODS.
What's Next
• MAC-VRF Instance Type Overview
• EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC VRF L2 services
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Underlay Over the WAN
This section shows you how to configure the collapsed gateway devices (a CRB spine with added
VXLAN stitching gateway functionality) so they can communicate with the WAN devices. Recall that
each POD already has a fully functional underlay and CRB overlay based on the reference
implementation for a 3-stage CRB architecture. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation" on page 172 for details.
You configure the spine/gateway devices to peer with the WAN routers to extend the underlay between
the two PODs. This involves configuring EBGP peering and policy to tag and advertise the loopback
routes from each gateway. These routes establish the inter-POD EBGP peering sessions that extend the
fabric overlay in the next section.
NOTE: Configuring the WAN routers is outside the scope of this document. They simply
need to support aggregate Ethernet interfaces and EBGP peering to the gateway
devices. In this example the WAN routers must re-advertise all routes received from one
POD to the other. In the case of a Junos device, this is the default policy for the EBGP
underlay peering in this example.
Figure 83 on page 398 provides the details regarding interfaces, IP addressing, and AS numbering for the
DCI portion of the POD networks.

398
Figure 83: Details for Underlay and Overlay Extension Across the WAN
The configuration on all the gateway devices is similar. We’ll walk you through configuring the gateway 1
device and then provide the full configuration delta for the other 3 gateways.
Gateway 1
1. Configure the interfaces that connect the gateway 1 device to the two WAN routers.
Here, we create an aggregated Ethernet (AE) interface that includes a single member. With this
approach you can easily add additional member links to increase the WAN throughput or resiliency.
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.7.1/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae5
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.9.1/31
2. Create a BGP peer group named underlay-bgp-wan, and configure it as an EBGP group.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
3. Configure the EBGP Underlay AS number.

399
In this reference design, you assign a unique AS number to each device in the underlay network. See
Figure 83 on page 398 for the AS numbers of the gateway and WAN devices.
You configure the AS number for EBGP in the underlay network at the BGP peer group level using
the local-as statement because the system AS number setting at the [edit routing-options autonomous-
system] hierarchy is used for MP-IBGP overlay peering in the local fabric, and for the EBGP peering
used to extend the overlay between the PODs.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000031
4. Configure EBGP peering with WAN devices 1 and 2.
You configure each WAN device as a EBGP neighbor by specifying the WAN device’s IP address and
AS number. See Figure 83 on page 398 for the IP addresses and AS numbers of the spine devices.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.7.0 peer-as 4200000061
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.9.0 peer-as 4200000062
5. Configure an import routing policy that subtracts 10 from the local preference value of routes
received from the WAN when they are tagged with a specific community. This policy ensures that
the gateway device always prefers a local underlay route, even when the same gateway loopback
address is also learned over the WAN peering.
Recall that we use EBGP for gateway to WAN router peering. By default, EBGP readvertises all
routes received to all other EBGP (and IBGP) neighbors. This means that when gateway 1 advertises
its loopback route to WAN router 1, the WAN router readvertises that route to gateway 2. The result
is that each gateway has both an intra-fabric route and an inter-fabric route to reach the other
gateway in its local POD.
We want to ensure that the gateway always prefers the intra-fabric path. We do this by adjusting the
local preference value for routes received from the WAN (to make them less preferred regardless of
AS path length). The policy also blocks the readvertisement of gateway loopback routes learned over
the WAN peering into the local fabric. The result is the leaf devices see only the intra-fabric gateway
loopback route while the gateway devices always prefer the intra-fabric gateway route.
You define the referenced community in the next step.
set policy-options policy-statement wan-import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan-import

400
NOTE: This examples assumes you are starting from a baseline reference architecture in
both PODs. Part of the pre-existing reference baseline is the fabric underlay and overlay
related BGP peering and policy. This example is based on the spine and gateway being
collapsed into a single device. Now that you have added underlay and overlay extension
via WAN routers, you should modify your existing underlay policy on the gateway, or in
our case the spine/gateway device, to block readvertisement of routes tagged with the
wan_underlay_comm from the other fabric devices.
We show an example of this modification here. The newly added from_wan term
suppresses advertisement of routes with the matching community into the fabric
underlay.
user@Spine-1> show configuration policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-
export
term loopback {
from interface lo0.0;
then accept;
}
term from_wan {
from community wan_underlay_comm;
then reject;
}
6. Configure an export routing policy to advertise the gateway loopback interface address to the WAN
devices. This policy rejects all other advertisements. You now define the wan_underlay_comm
community used to tag these routes.
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface
lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
7. Configure multipath with the multiple-as option to enable load balancing between EBGP peers in
different ASs.

401
By default, EBGP selects one best path for each prefix and installs that route in the forwarding table.
Also, you configure BGP multipath so all equal-cost paths to a given destination are installed into the
routing table.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
8. Enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) for the WAN EBGP sessions. BFD enables rapid
detection of failures and thereby fast reconvergence.
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
Configure Gateway Devices to Extend the Overlay Over the WAN
This section show how to extend the EVPN overlay between the two PODs using EBGP. Recall that in
this example the two PODs have unique AS numbers, so EBGP is used.
As is typical for 3-stage CRB fabric, our spine devices (gateways) function as route reflectors in the
overlay for the leaf devices in their respective PODs. In this section you define a new EBGP peering
group that extends the overlay between the PODs. See Figure 83 on page 398 for details about the AS
numbering and spine device loopback addresses.
The configuration on all the gateway devices is similar. Once again, we’ll walk you through configuring
the gateway 1 device, and provide the full configuration delta for the other 3 gateways.
Gateway 1
1. Configure the EBGP group to extend the EVPN overlay to the remote gateway devices.
Normally, we use IBGP for an EVPN overlay. We use EBGP here because we assigned the PODS
different AS numbers. Note here that you must enable the multihop option. By default, EBGP expects
a directly connected peer. In this example, the peer is remotely attached to the far side of the WAN.
Also, you must configure the no-nexthop-change option. This option alters the default EBGP behavior of
updating the BGP next hop to a local value when re-advertising routes. With this option, you tell the
gateway device to leave the BGP protocol next hop for the overlay route unchanged. This is
important because the gateway IP address may not be a VXLAN VTEP address, for example, in an
ERB fabric where the next hop for an EVPN type 2 route must identify that leaf device. Not
overwriting the next hop ensures that the correct VTEPs are used for VXLAN tunnels.

402
You configure the EBGP peering between the gateway device loopback addresses.
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-
advertisements minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.3 peer-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.4 peer-as 4210000002
2. As with the underlay peering, we add BFD for rapid failure detection in the overlay extension. Note
that here we specify a longer interval for the overlay peering. In the underlay extension peering, we
used a 1-second interval. Here we configure a 4-second interval to help ensure the overlay sessions
remain up in the event of an underlay failure that requires reconvergence.
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
3. Be sure to commit the changes on all gateway devices after these steps.
Gateway Device Configurations for Underlay and Overlay Extension
This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices. You add this delta to the initial
CRB baseline to extend the POD underlay and overlay over the WAN.
NOTE: The final two statements modify the existing fabric underlay policy to block re-
advertisement of routes tagged with the wan_underlay_comm community from the
other leaf devices.
Gateway 1 (POD 1)
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.7.1/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae5

403
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.9.1/31
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000031
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.7.0 peer-as 4200000061
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.9.0 peer-as 4200000062
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan-import
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.3 peer-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.4 peer-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community underlay-
clos-export
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject
Gateway 2 (Pod 1)
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.8.1/31

404
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae5
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.10.1/31
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000032
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.8.0 peer-as 4200000061
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.10.0 peer-as 4200000062
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan-import
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.3 peer-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.4 peer-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community underlay-
clos-export
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject

405
Gateway 3 (POD 2)
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.12.1/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.14.1/31
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.12.0 peer-as 4200000062
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.14.0 peer-as 4200000061
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan-import
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.1 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.2 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community underlay-

406
clos-export
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject
Gateway 4 (POD 2)
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.11.1/31
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.13.1/31
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000034
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.11.0 peer-as 4200000062
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.12.0 peer-as 4200000061
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan-import
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.4
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.1 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.2 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic

407
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community underlay-
clos-export
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject
Verify Underlay and Overlay Extension Over the WAN
This section shows how you verify the gateway devices are properly integrated into the WAN to extend
the underlay and overlay networks between the two PODs.
1. Verify that the aggregated Ethernet interfaces are operational. Proper BGP session establishment is a
good sign the interface can pass traffic. If in doubt, ping the remote end of the AE link.
user@spine1> show interfaces ae4
Physical interface: ae4, Enabled, Physical link is Up
Interface index: 129, SNMP ifIndex: 544
Link-level type: Ethernet, MTU: 9192, Speed: 40Gbps, BPDU Error: None, Ethernet-Switching
Error: None, MAC-REWRITE Error: None, Loopback: Disabled,
Source filtering: Disabled, Flow control: Disabled, Minimum links needed: 1, Minimum
bandwidth needed: 1bps
Device flags : Present Running
Interface flags: SNMP-Traps Internal: 0x4000
Current address: 80:ac:ac:24:21:98, Hardware address: 80:ac:ac:24:21:98
Last flapped : 2020-07-30 13:09:31 PDT (3d 05:01 ago)
Input rate : 42963216 bps (30206 pps)
Output rate : 107152 bps (76 pps)
Logical interface ae4.0 (Index 544) (SNMP ifIndex 564)
Flags: Up SNMP-Traps 0x4004000 Encapsulation: ENET2
Statistics Packets pps Bytes bps
Bundle:
Input : 7423834047 30126 1155962320326 37535088
Output: 149534343 82 17315939427 83824
Adaptive Statistics:
Adaptive Adjusts: 0
Adaptive Scans : 0
Adaptive Updates: 0
Protocol inet, MTU: 9000
Max nh cache: 75000, New hold nh limit: 75000, Curr nh cnt: 1, Curr new hold cnt: 0, NH
drop cnt: 0
Flags: Sendbcast-pkt-to-re, Is-Primary, User-MTU

408
Addresses, Flags: Is-Preferred Is-Primary
Destination: 172.16.7.1/31, Local: 172.16.7.1
The output confirms that the aggregated Ethernet interface ae4 is operational on gateway 1. The
traffic counters also confirm the interface sends and receives packets.
2. Verify that the underlay EBGP sessions to the WAN devices are established.
user@spine1> show bgp summary group underlay-bgp-wan
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 5 Peers: 11 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.rtarget.0
5038 5038 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
363629 190125 0 0 0 0
inet.0
24 12 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.7.0 4200000061 3201 3123 0 0 1d 0:00:43 Establ
inet.0: 3/4/4/0
172.16.9.0 4200000062 3200 3122 0 0 1d 0:00:24 Establ
inet.0: 3/4/4/0
0
The output shows that both EBGP peering sessions on the gateway 1 device are established to both
WAN routers.
3. Verify that the overlay EBGP sessions are established between the gateway devices across the WAN.
user@spine1> show bgp summary group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 5 Peers: 11 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.rtarget.0
5038 5038 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
363629 190125 0 0 0 0
inet.0
24 12 0 0 0 0

409
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
192.168.4.3 4210000002 4376 3968 0 0 1d 0:03:30 Establ
bgp.rtarget.0: 2519/2519/2519/0
bgp.evpn.0: 43376/86752/86752/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-dhcp-1.evpn.0: 86/172/172/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-transl-1.evpn.0: 10002/20004/20004/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1.evpn.0: 10002/20004/20004/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 20086/40172/40172/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
192.168.4.4 4210000002 52575 9330 0 0 1d 0:03:30 Establ
bgp.rtarget.0: 2519/2519/2519/0
bgp.evpn.0: 43376/86752/86752/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-dhcp-1.evpn.0: 86/172/172/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-transl-1.evpn.0: 10002/20004/20004/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1.evpn.0: 10002/20004/20004/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 20086/40172/40172/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
The output confirms that both the overlay EBGP sessions from the gateway 1 device are established
to both remote gateways in POD 2.
With underlay and overlay extension verified, you are ready to move onto configuring VXLAN
stitching for Layer 2 DCI between the PODs.
Configure Translational VXLAN Stitching DCI in the Default Switch
Instance
In this section you configure VXLAN stitching in the gateway devices to provide Layer 2 stretch
between the two PODs using the default switch instance. We support VXLAN stitching in the default
switch instance and in MAC-VRF instances. We begin with the default switch instance, and later show
the delta for the MAC-VRF instance case.
VXLAN stitching supports both a global mode and a translational mode. In the global mode, the VNI
remains the same end-to-end, that is, across both the PODs and the WAN network. You use global
mode when the VLAN and VNI assignments overlap between the PODs. In translational mode, you map
a local POD VNI value to a VNI used across the WAN.

410
You configure VXLAN stitching only on the gateway devices. The leaf devices don’t require any changes.
In ERB fabrics, the lean spine devices also don’t require any changes if you have a super-spine layer
performing the gateway function.
Table 15 on page 410 outlines the POD VLAN and VNI assignments. In this example, the PODs use a
different VNI for the same VLAN. This is why you configure translational stitching in this case. With
translational stitching, the VNI can be unique to each POD and still be stitched to a shared VNI
assignment over the WAN.
Table 15: VLAN to VNI Mappings
POD 1 POD 2 WAN DCI
VLAN 1
VNI: 100001 VNI: 110001 VNI: 910001
VLAN 2
VNI: 100002 VNI: 110002 VNI: 910002
Figure 84 on page 411 provides a high-level view of the VXLAN stitching plan for VLAN 1 in our
example.

411
Figure 84: Translational VXLAN Stitching Summary for VLAN 1
Figure 84 on page 411 shows VLAN 1 in POD 1 uses VNI 100001, while the same VLAN in POD 2
maps to 11000. You stitch both VLANs to a common VNI 910001 for transport over the WAN. When
received from the WAN, the gateway translates the stitched VNI back to the VNI used locally within its
POD.
Once again, the configuration on the gateway devices is similar. We walk you through the steps needed
on the gateway 1 device, and provide the configuration delta for the other gateway nodes.
Perform these steps to configure translational VXLAN stitching on gateway 1.
Gateway 1
1. Configure the default switch instance EVPN parameters for route exchange between the two PODs.
This configuration includes support for an all-active ESI LAG between the gateways. Setting up an
ESI LAG over the WAN ensures that all WAN links are actively used to forward traffic without the
risk of packet loops. You must use the same ESI value for all gateways within a given POD, and each
POD must use a unique ESI value. Therefore, in this example you configure two unique ESIs, one for
each pair of gateways in each POD.

412
The route target controls route imports. You configure the same route target on all gateway devices
to ensure that all routes advertised by one POD are imported by the other. You set the route
distinguisher to reflect each gateway device’s loopback address.
set protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:60001:60001
set protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher 192.168.4.1:30000
set protocols evpn interconnect esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01
set protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
2. Configure VXLAN stitching for VLANs 1 and 2. You specify the VNIs that are stitched over the WAN
at the [edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list] hierarchy. The gateway devices in both
PODs must use the same VNI across the WAN for each stitched VNI.
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910001
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910002
3. Configure translational VXLAN stitching for VLAN 1 by linking the local VLAN/VNI to a translational
VNI. Note that the translational VNI value matches the VNI you configured at the protocols evpn
interconnect interconnected-vni-list hierarchy in the previous step. Thus, with the following commands
you map a local VNI to a WAN VNI.
For global VXLAN stitching, you simple omit the translational statement and configure the user
VLAN to use the same VNI value you configure at the [edit protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list] hierarchy.
Recall that the leaf and spine devices in each pod are already configured for the CRB reference
architecture. As part of the pre-existing configuration, VLANs are defined on both the spine and leaf
devices. The VLAN definition on all devices includes a VLAN ID to VXLAN VNI mapping. The spine’s
VLAN configuration differs from the leaf, however, in that it includes the Layer 3 IRB interface, again
making this an example of CRB. The existing configuration for VLAN 1 is shown at the gateway 1
(spine 1) device for reference:
user@Spine-1> show configuration vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1
EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 {
vlan-id 1;
l3-interface irb.1;
vxlan {
vni 100001;
}
}

413
You now modify the configuration for VLAN 1 on the gateway 1 device to evoke translational
VXLAN stitching. The VNI you specify matches one of the VNI values you configured at the edit
protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list hierarchy in a previous step. The result is that the
device translates VNI 100001 (used locally in POD 1 for VLAN 1) to VNI 910001 when sending it
over the WAN. In the remote POD, a similar configuration maps from the WAN VNI back to the local
VNI associated with the same VLAN in the remote POD. In configuration mode, enter the following
command:
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 vxlan translation-vni 910001
4. Configure translational VXLAN stitching for VLAN 2.
You modify the configuration for VLAN 2 to invoke translational VXLAN stitching from VNI 100002
(used locally in POD 1 for VLAN 2) to VNI 910002 over the WAN.
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan translation-vni 910002
5. Confirm the change for VLAN 1. We omit VLAN 2 for brevity. The following command displays the
change to VLAN 1 in configuration mode:
[edit]
user@Spine-1# show vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1
EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 {
vlan-id 1;
l3-interface irb.1;
vxlan {
vni 100001;
translation-vni 910001
}
}
6. Be sure to commit your changes on all gateway devices when done.
Gateway Device Configurations for Translational VXLAN Stitching in
Default Switch Instance
This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices. You add this delta to the CRB
baseline that you have modified for DCI over the WAN. Once you have extended the underlay and

414
overlay, the following configurations perform translational VXLAN stitching between the local POD’s
VNI and the VNI on the WAN.
Gateway 1 (POD 1)
set protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:60001:60001
set protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher 192.168.4.1:30000
set protocols evpn interconnect esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01
set protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910001
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910002
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 vxlan translation-vni 910001
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan translation-vni 910002
Gateway 2 (Pod 1)
set protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:60001:60001
set protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher 192.168.4.2:30000
set protocols evpn interconnect esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01
set protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910001
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910002
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 vxlan translation-vni 910001
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan translation-vni 910002
Gateway 3 (POD 2)
set protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:60001:60001
set protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:30000
set protocols evpn interconnect esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01
set protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910001
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910002

415
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 vxlan translation-vni 910001
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan translation-vni 910002
Gateway 4 (POD 2)
set protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:60001:60001
set protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher 192.168.4.4:30000
set protocols evpn interconnect esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01
set protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910001
set protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list 910002
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1 vxlan translation-vni 910001
set vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan translation-vni 910002
Verify Translational VXLAN Stitching in Default Switch Instance
1. Confirm the ESI LAG between the gateway devices is operational and in active-active mode.
user@Spine-1> show evpn instance default-switch esi 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 dci
extensive | except irb
Instance: default-switch
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.1:20000
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
Duplicate MAC detection threshold: 5
Duplicate MAC detection window: 180
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 1204 7596
MAC+IP advertisements: 6020 31494
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 2408 0
Number of local interfaces: 1 (1 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
.local..4 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 all-active Up Root
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
Number of protect interfaces: 0
Number of bridge domains: 1204
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-

416
Peer
192.168.0.1 1199 3167 8 1204 0
192.168.0.2 1180 3395 6 1200 0
192.168.0.3 1201 3562 0 1204 0
192.168.4.2 2408 6020 1207 2008 0
DCI
192.168.4.3 804 18468 2 804 0
DCI
192.168.4.4 804 18468 2 804 0
DCI
Number of ethernet segments: 1210
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 I-ESI
Local interface: .local..4, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.4.2 0 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.4.1
Backup forwarder: 192.168.4.2
Last designated forwarder update: Sep 07 00:45:58
Router-ID: 192.168.4.1
SMET Forwarding: Disabled
EVPN-Interconnect:
Route-distinguisher: 192.168.4.1:30000
Vrf-import: [ __evpn-ic-import-default-switch-internal__ ]
Vrf-export: [ __evpn-ic-export-default-switch-internal__ ]
Vrf-import-target: [ target:60001:60001 ]
Vrf-export-target: [ target:60001:60001 ]
DCI route stats Local
AD route advertisements: 1
IM route advertisements: 804
MAC route advertisements: 805
MAC+IP route advertisements: 29593
ES route advertisements: 0
SG Proxy route advertisements: 0
The output shows that ESI 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 is operational. The output also shows
active-active forwarding (Mode column shows all-active) and both Designated forwarder and Backup
forwarder device addresses.

417
2. View remote VXLAN VTEPs to confirm the remote gateway devices are listed as WAN VTEPs.
user@Spine-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance default-
switch
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode
<default> 0 192.168.4.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode Flags
192.168.0.1 default-switch 3627 vtep.32792 83845 RNVE
192.168.0.2 default-switch 3619 vtep.32784 69393 RNVE
192.168.4.2 default-switch 3611 vtep.32779 42491 RNVE
192.168.0.3 default-switch 3624 vtep.32789 74194 RNVE
192.168.4.3 default-switch 3618 vtep.32783 51568 Wan-VTEP
192.168.4.4 default-switch 3610 vtep.32775 42419 Wan-VTEP
The output correctly shows both remote gateways as Wan-VTEP.
3. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 100001. Recall that in our
example this is the VNI you assigned to VLAN 1 on the CRB leaves and spines in POD 1.
user@Spine-1> show evpn database state dci-adv instance default-switch l2-domain-id 100001
Instance: default-switch
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
100001 00:00:5e:00:00:04 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:01:86:a1:00 Sep 09 03:30:15 10.0.1.254
2001:db8::10:0:1:254
100001 0c:59:9c:f2:60:00 192.168.4.2 Sep 09 03:30:15 10.0.1.242
2001:db8::10:0:1:242
fe80::e59:9c00:1f2:6000
100001 ba:31:2f:00:01:01 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:03:00:05 Sep 09 04:51:03 10.0.1.1
2001:db8::10:0:1:1
100001 ba:32:2f:00:01:01 192.168.0.3 Sep 09 03:50:58 10.0.1.11
2001:db8::10:0:1:b
100001 e8:a2:45:86:a8:00 irb.1 Sep 09 03:29:48 10.0.1.241
2001:db8::10:0:1:241
fe80::eaa2:4500:186:a800

418
The output confirms the VNI value 100001 associated with VLAN 1 is advertised and used in the
local POD.
4. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 910001. Recall that this is the VNI
associated with VLAN 1 for translational VXLAN stitching over the WAN.
user@Spine-1> show evpn database state dc-adv instance default-switch l2-domain-id 910001
Instance: default-switch
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
910001 00:00:5e:00:00:04 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:53 10.0.1.254
2001:db8::10:0:1:254
910001 0c:59:9c:6f:7a:a0 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:51 10.0.1.245
2001:db8::10:0:1:245
fe80::e59:9c00:16f:7aa0
910001 0c:59:9c:f9:8f:10 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:55 10.0.1.243
2001:db8::10:0:1:243
fe80::e59:9c00:1f9:8f10
910001 4c:6d:58:00:00:00 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:50 10.0.1.246
2001:db8::10:0:1:246
fe80::4e6d:5800:100:0
910001 50:c7:09:0a:85:60 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:53 10.0.1.244
2001:db8::10:0:1:244
fe80::52c7:900:10a:8560
910001 be:31:2f:00:01:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:51 10.0.1.101
2001:db8::10:0:1:65
fe80::10:0:1:65
910001 be:32:2f:00:01:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:52 10.0.1.111
2001:db8::10:0:1:6f
fe80::10:0:1:6f
910001 c8:fe:6a:2d:56:00 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:00:00:01 Sep 10 00:15:49 10.0.1.247

419
2001:db8::10:0:1:247
fe80::cafe:6a00:12d:5600
The output confirms the VNI value 910001 associated with VLAN 1 is advertised to the remote
POD. This confirms that VNI 910001 is used over the WAN. Given the local VNI differs from the VNI
used on the WAN, this confirms translational VXLAN stitching for the default switch instance use
case.
VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Routing Instance
We support both global and translational VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF routing instances. Because we
demonstrated translational stitching for the previous default switch instance, for the MAC-VRF case we
show global mode VXLAN stitching.
Coverage of MAC-VRF routing instances is beyond the scope of this document. Once again, we assume
you have a working CRB fabric with MAC-VRF instances configured as per the reference baseline. For
details on configuring MAC-VRF, see MAC-VRF Routing Instance Type Overview and a sample use case
at EVPN-VXLAN DC IP Fabric MAC VRF L2 services.
To keep the focus on the VXLAN stitching feature, we call out the delta for adding VXLAN stitching to
an existing MAC-VRF. As with the default switch instance, we apply the stitching configuration only to
the gateway devices. In the case of MAC-VRF, however, you configure the VLAN to VNI mapping in the
MAC-VRF instance, rather than at the [edit vlans] hierarchy. Another difference in the MAC-VRF case is
that you configure the interconnected-vni-list statement in the routing instance instead of at the [edit
protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list] hierarchy.
The goal in this example is to perform global VXLAN stitching for VLANs 1201 and 1202, which map to
VXLAN VNIs 401201 and 401201, respectively. You configure the same VLAN to VNI mapping in both
PODS. You can use global mode stitching because the VLAN to VNI assignments overlap in both PODs.
You add the following commands to the gateway devices for the MAC-VRF instance that will perform
stitching. The configuration defines the ESI LAG used between the local gateways and specifies the list
of interconnected VNIs.
You need a similar configuration on all gateway devices. As before, we walk though the configuration
details for the gateway 1 device and then provide the complete configuration delta for the other
gateways.

420
In the below example you configure VNIs 401201 and 401202 for VXLAN stitching over the WAN
segment.
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.1:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401202
NOTE: When configuring VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context, you must include the
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels option on all leaf nodes in the QFX5000 line
of switches running Junos OS. After adding this statement, you must reboot the switch.
We don’t recommend using the shared tunnels statement on gateway nodes in the
QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS with VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF
routing instances.
Shared tunnels are enabled by default on devices running Junos OS Evolved (which
supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF configurations).
As noted, a complete MAC-VRF routing instance configuration is beyond our scope. The configuration
block below uses a pre-existing MAC-VRF instance based on the MAC-VRF reference design. We show
this configuration snip to better illustrate why this is an example of global mode VXLAN stitching (for a
MAC-VRF instance). The sample is from the CRB spine 1 device, which is also a gateway in our collapsed
gateway example topology. For brevity, we only show the configuration for VLAN 1201.
user@Spine-1> show configuration routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-
VLAN-1201
vlan-id 1201;
l3-interface irb.1201;
vxlan {
vni 401201;
}

421
In the above, the MAC-VRF definition for VLAN 1201 specifies the same VNI (401201) listed at the
[edit routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vni-list]
hierarchy. This results in end-to-end (global) significance for that VNI.
As with the default switch instance, it is trivial to invoke translational VXLAN stitching in the MAC-VRF
context.
For example, to translate from local VNI 300801 for VLAN 801 to a WAN VNI of 920001, you simply
modify the VLAN definition in the related MAC-VRF instance to include the translation-vni 920001
statement.
user@Spine-1>show routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-transl-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-801
vlan-id 801;
l3-interface irb.801;
vxlan {
vni 300801;
translation-vni 920001
}
By adding the translation-vni 920001 statement to the MAC-VRF VLAN configuration, you tell the
gateway device to translate from local VNI 300801 to VNI 920001 when sending over the WAN.
Gateway Device Configurations for Global VXLAN Stitching With MAC-
VRF
This section provides the configuration delta for all four gateway devices to support global mode
VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context. You add this delta is added to the CRB baseline you modified
for DCI over the WAN. After you extend the underlay and overlay, the configurations below perform
global VXLAN stitching for VNIs 401201 and 401202. Because this is global mode example, you don’t
include the translation-vni statement. The VLAN and interconnect VNI values are the same.
Gateway 1 (POD 1)
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.1:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active

422
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN- vlan-id 1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 l3-interface
irb.1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 vxlan vni 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vlan-id 1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 l3-interface
irb.1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vxlan vni 401202
Gateway 2 (Pod 1)
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.2:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN- vlan-id 1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 l3-interface
irb.1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 vxlan vni 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vlan-id 1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 l3-interface
irb.1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vxlan vni 401202

423
Gateway 3 (POD 2)
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN- vlan-id 1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 l3-interface
irb.1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 vxlan vni 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vlan-id 1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 l3-interface
irb.1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vxlan vni 401202
Gateway 4 (POD 2)
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.4:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN- vlan-id 1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 l3-interface

424
irb.1201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1201 vxlan vni 401201
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vlan-id 1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 l3-interface
irb.1202
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1202 vxlan vni 401202
NOTE: When configuring VXLAN stitching in a MAC-VRF context, you must include the
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels option on all leaf nodes in the QFX5000 line
of switches. After adding this statement you must reboot the switch. We don’t
recommend configuring the shared tunnel statement on gateway nodes in the
QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS with VXLAN stitching in MAC-VRF
routing instances.
Shared tunnels are enabled by default on devices running Junos OS Evolved (which
supports EVPN-VXLAN only with MAC-VRF configurations).
Verify Global VXLAN Stitching in a MAC-VRF Instance
1. Confirm the ESI LAG used between the gateway devices is operational and in active-active mode for
the MAC-VRF case.
user@Spine-1> show evpn instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 dci extensive | except irb
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.1:34501
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
Duplicate MAC detection threshold: 5
Duplicate MAC detection window: 180
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 400 2795
MAC+IP advertisements: 2000 13395
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 800 0
Number of local interfaces: 1 (1 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
.local..5 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 all-active Up Root
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
Number of protect interfaces: 0
Number of bridge domains: 400

425
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-
Peer
192.168.0.1 400 1145 2 400 0
192.168.0.2 395 1134 2 400 0
192.168.0.3 400 1050 0 400 0
192.168.4.2 800 2000 403 800 0
DCI
192.168.4.3 400 9200 2 400 0
DCI
192.168.4.4 400 9200 2 400 0
DCI
Number of ethernet segments: 403
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 I-ESI
Local interface: .local..5, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.4.2 0 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.4.1
Backup forwarder: 192.168.4.2
Last designated forwarder update: Sep 07 00:46:00
Router-ID: 192.168.4.1
Source VTEP interface IP: 192.168.4.1
SMET Forwarding: Disabled
EVPN-Interconnect:
Route-distinguisher: 192.168.4.1:46000
Vrf-import: [ __evpn-ic-import-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-export: [ __evpn-ic-export-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-import-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
Vrf-export-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
DCI route stats Local
AD route advertisements: 1
IM route advertisements: 400
MAC route advertisements: 400
MAC+IP route advertisements: 14595
ES route advertisements: 0
SG Proxy route advertisements: 0
The output shows that ESI 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:00:00:01 is operational. Active-Active forwarding is
verified by the all-active mode and the presence of both a designated and backup forwarder.

426
2. View remote VXLAN VTEPs to confirm the remote gateway devices are listed as WAN VTEPs.
user@Spine-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance MACVRF-
mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode
<default> 0 192.168.4.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode Flags
192.168.0.1 default-switch 3627 vtep.32792 83845 RNVE
192.168.0.2 default-switch 3619 vtep.32784 69393 RNVE
192.168.4.2 default-switch 3611 vtep.32779 42491 RNVE
192.168.0.3 default-switch 3624 vtep.32789 74194 RNVE
192.168.4.3 default-switch 3618 vtep.32783 51568 Wan-VTEP
192.168.4.4 default-switch 3610 vtep.32775 42419 Wan-VTEP
The output correctly shows both remote gateways as a Wan-VTEP.
3. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 401201 for advertisements to the
WAN. In our example, this is the VNI assigned to VLAN 1201 in both PODs. As this is a CRB
example, you defined VLAN 1201 on the spines and on the leaf devices. Only the spine devices
include the Layer 3 IRB interfaces in their VLAN configurations, however.
user@Spine-1> show evpn database state dci-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 l2-
domain-id 401201
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
401201 00:00:5e:00:00:04 05:fa:ef:80:81:00:06:1f:31:00 Sep 09 03:30:32
10.4.177.254
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:254
401201 0c:59:9c:f2:60:00 192.168.4.2 Sep 09 03:30:32
10.4.177.242
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:242
fe80::e59:9c04:b1f2:6000
401201 ba:51:2f:04:b1:01 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:05:00:07 Sep 09 07:08:47 10.4.177.1
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:1
401201 ba:52:2f:04:b1:01 192.168.0.3 Sep 09 03:50:58 10.4.177.11
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:b
401201 e8:a2:45:86:a8:00 irb.1201 Sep 09 03:29:44

427
10.4.177.241
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:241
fe80::eaa2:4504:b186:a800
The output confirms VNI value 401201, which is associated with VLAN 1201 and the irb.1201
interface, is advertised to the remote POD. This confirms that VNI 401201 is used over the WAN for
VLAN 1201.
4. View the EVPN database on the gateway 1 device for VXLAN VNI 401201 for advertisements to the
local POD. Recall this is the VNI associated with VLAN 1201 in both PODs. This is the same VNI you
used in the previous command to display advertisements to the remote gateways.
user@Spine-1> show evpn database state dc-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 l2-domain-
id 401201
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
401201 0c:59:9c:6f:7a:a0 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:02
10.4.177.245
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:245
fe80::e59:9c04:b16f:7aa0
401201 0c:59:9c:f9:8f:10 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:06
10.4.177.243
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:243
fe80::e59:9c04:b1f9:8f10
401201 4c:6d:58:00:00:00 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:02
10.4.177.246
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:246
fe80::4e6d:5804:b100:0
401201 50:c7:09:0a:85:60 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:10
10.4.177.244
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:244
fe80::52c7:904:b10a:8560
401201 be:51:2f:04:b1:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:03

428
10.4.177.101
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:65
fe80::40:0:4b1:65
401201 be:52:2f:04:b1:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:55:03
10.4.177.111
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:6f
fe80::40:0:4b1:6f
401201 c8:fe:6a:2d:56:00 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 Sep 09 23:54:58
10.4.177.247
2001:db8::10:4:4b1:247
fe80::cafe:6a04:b12d:5600
The output shows that VNI 401201 is advertised to the local POD. This confirms that VNI 401201 is
used locally. Given the same VNI is used locally, and across the WAN, this confirms global VXLAN
stitching in a MAC-VRF case.
Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization (VMTO) with VXLAN Stitching
In some environments you may want to install /32 or /128 host routes to optimize traffic to a specific
VM. When you use VXLAN stitching, configure the following on all gateway nodes to enable installation
of host routes.
The first command adds host route support to the default switch instance. The second adds host route
support for a specific MAC-VRF instance. You must configure both if you are using a mix of instance
types.
set protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1 protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes

429
Verify Host Route Support
IN THIS SECTION
Purpose | 429
Action | 429
Purpose
Confirm that /32 host routes are imported into a Layer 3 VRF table when using the default switch
instance or a MAC-VRF table when using MAC-VRF.
Action
Display the related routing instance’s route table and look for routes with a /32 (or /128) bit prefix. We
begin with the display of a Layer 3 VRF table used with VXLAN stitching, the default switch instance:
user@Spine-1> show route table VRF-ep-t2-stchd-transl-1.inet.0 protocol evpn
VRF-ep-t2-stchd-transl-1.inet.0: 52 destinations, 56 routes (52 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.0.1.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:54:12
> via irb.1
10.0.1.11/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:54:12
> via irb.1
10.0.1.101/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:54:12
> via irb.1
10.0.1.111/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:54:12
. . .
Next, we display a MAC-VRF instance route table.
user@Spine-1> show route table VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1.inet.0 protocol evpn
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-stchd-1.inet.0: 52 destinations, 52 routes (52 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both

430
10.4.177.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 20:39:31
> via irb.1201
10.4.177.11/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:57:20
> via irb.1201
10.4.177.101/32 *[EVPN/7] 23:57:20
. . .
EVPN Type 2 Symmetric Routing with DCI Stitching
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
This document outlines the steps necessary to Inter-DC Underlay and Overlay | 432
configure symmetric integrated routing and bridging
Intra-DC Underlay and Overlay | 435
(IRB) of Ethernet VPN (EVPN) Type 2 routes. Layer 2
Data Center Interconnect (DCI) gateway devices Layer 2 Symmetric IRB | 436
perform routing over stitched Virtual Extensible LAN Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect | 440
(VXLAN) tunnels. Layer 2 DCI stitching is covered
Type 5 Stitching | 450
thoroughly in "Configure VXLAN Stitching for
Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect" on page 391. Interconnect Multihoming for DCI Gateway
Peers | 452
Configurations for DC2-GW21 and DC2-
Leaf21 | 453
DCI enables you to segment the data center fabric into multiple points of delivery (PODs). Seamless
stitching of VXLAN virtual network identifiers (VNIs) allows you to selectively stretch your Layer 2
network between PODs. Each POD follows a spine and leaf design. The leaf nodes in a given POD
establish VXLAN tunnels only with leaves and spines in their POD. Spines transport traffic to other
spines of different PODs. VXLAN stitching with DCI is ideal for larger networks because it reduces MAC
flooding by reducing the required number of VXLAN tunnels between PODs.
Symmetric IRB in an EVPN-VXLAN environment occurs when the ingress and egress VXLAN tunnel end
points (VTEPs) perform both routing and bridging on each side of the VXLAN tunnel. The ingress
provider edge (PE) device performs a MAC lookup followed by an IP lookup. The egress PE performs the
opposite, an IP lookup followed by a MAC lookup. Symmetric versus asymmetric models are covered in
RFC 9135.

431
NOTE: Juniper Networks supports symmetric Type 2 routing with EVPN in:
• Networks using only symmetric Type 2 routing in PODs within the same DCI.
• EVPN-VXLAN environments.
• Edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlays.
Figure 85 on page 431 shows the topology for this example. The topology consists of two data centers
connected over a WAN. Both data centers have similar ERB architectures. We refer to the data center
on the left as DC1, and the data center on the right as DC2.
DC2 includes a layer of lean spine devices between the gateways and leaf layers. These lean spines are
transit devices for the underlay. The topology uses EBGP for both the underlay and the overlay in both
DC1 and DC2.
Figure 85: Topology for DCI and Symmetric IRB Routing with EVPN Type 2 Routes

432
Inter-DC Underlay and Overlay
Configure the EBGP DCI underlay on DC2-GW21:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan_import
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.13.0 peer-as 4200000061
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.11.0 peer-as 4200000062
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan log-updown
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan graceful-restart
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
Verify the EBGP DCI underlay on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show bgp summary group underlay-bgp-wan
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 4 Peers: 8 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.rtarget.0
727 515 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0

433
124568 68684 0 0 0 0
inet.0
18 16 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.11.0 4200000062 346 339 0 0 2:34:05 Establ
inet.0: 3/4/4/0
172.16.13.0 4200000061 346 339 0 0 2:34:05 Establ
inet.0: 3/4/4/0
Configure the EBGP DCI overlay on DC2-GW21:
set routing-options resolution rib bgp.rtarget.0 resolution-ribs inet.0
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.1 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.2 peer-as 4210000001
Verify the EBGP DCI overlay on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show bgp summary group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 4 Peers: 8 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.rtarget.0
727 515 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
124568 68684 0 0 0 0
inet.0
18 16 0 0 0 0

434
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
192.168.4.1 4210000001 3451 3397 0 0 2:34:58 Establ
bgp.rtarget.0: 258/364/364/0
bgp.evpn.0: 15468/23732/23732/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1.evpn.0: 176/176/176/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-2.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-3.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-4.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-2.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-3.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-4.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1.evpn.0: 3034/4149/4149/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0: 3002/4104/4104/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1.evpn.0: 3002/6004/6004/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1.evpn.0: 3002/6004/6004/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
192.168.4.2 4210000001 3513 3274 0 0 2:34:54 Establ
bgp.rtarget.0: 257/363/363/0
bgp.evpn.0: 15468/23732/23732/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1.evpn.0: 176/176/176/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-2.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-3.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-4.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-2.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-3.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-4.evpn.0: 141/141/141/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1.evpn.0: 3034/4149/4149/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0: 3002/4104/4104/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1.evpn.0: 3002/6004/6004/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1.evpn.0: 3002/6004/6004/0
MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1.evpn.0: 108/151/151/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0

435
Intra-DC Underlay and Overlay
Configure the EBGP Intra-DC underlay on DC2-GW21:
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.15.0 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.17.0 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp log-updown
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp graceful-restart
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
Verify the EBGP Intra-DC underlay on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show bgp summary group underlay-bgp
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 4 Peers: 8 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.rtarget.0
727 515 0 0 0 0
bgp.evpn.0
124568 68684 0 0 0 0
inet.0
22 16 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.15.0 4200000042 152 149 0 0 1:06:08 Establ
inet.0: 5/7/7/0

436
172.16.17.0 4200000042 153 149 0 0 1:06:07 Establ
inet.0: 5/7/7/0
Layer 2 Symmetric IRB
Configure Layer 2 symmetric IRB interfaces on the DCI gateways Layer 3 virtual routing and forwarding
(VRF) instance on DC2-GW21:
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni 9100501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.502
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.503
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.504
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface lo0.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target import target:400:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target export target:500:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-table-label
Verify symmetric routes on DC2-GW21 for the remote gateway. Symmetric routes will have a protocol
preference of 7, while asymmetric routes will have a protocol preference of 170:
user@DC2-GW21> show route 10.20.245.1
VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.inet.0: 68 destinations, 208 routes (68 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
@ = Routing Use Only, # = Forwarding Use Only
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.20.245.1/32 @[EVPN/7] 00:04:36
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
[EVPN/7] 00:04:36
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
[EVPN/170] 00:04:36

437
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
[EVPN/170] 00:04:36
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
#[Multipath/255] 00:04:36, metric2 0
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
> to 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
Layer 2 symmetric routes carry the Layer 2 and Layer 3 VNIs along with the Type 2 DCI route target (RT)
and Type 5 stitching interconnect RT. They also carry router MAC addresses and interconnect Ethernet
segment identifiers (iESI) details:
user@DC2-GW21> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix
2:192.168.4.1:38000::200501::ba:31:2f:01:f5:01::10.20.245.1/304 extensive
bgp.evpn.0: 104886 destinations, 160122 routes (104082 active, 0 holddown, 1608 hidden)
2:192.168.4.1:38000::200501::ba:31:2f:01:f5:01::10.20.245.1/304 MAC/IP (1 entry, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.1:38000
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x5601d3366b9c
Next-hop reference count: 1067
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.4.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.4.1
Label operation: Push 12531
Label TTL action: prop-ttl
Load balance label: Label 12531: None;
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
State: <Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 7:41 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001_42100000.192.168.4.1
AS path: 4210000001 I
Communities: target:5003:6001 target:60003:60001 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80
Import Accepted
Route Label: 200501

438
Route Label: 9100501
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.4.1
Secondary Tables: VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-1.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.4.1 ResolvState: Resolved
Label operation: Push 12531
Label TTL action: prop-ttl
Load balance label: Label 12531: None;
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
Session Id: 0
192.168.4.1/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
Session Id: 0
user@DC2-GW21> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix
2:192.168.4.2:38000::200501::ba:31:2f:01:f5:01::10.20.245.1/304 extensive
bgp.evpn.0: 104886 destinations, 160122 routes (104082 active, 0 holddown, 1608 hidden)
2:192.168.4.2:38000::200501::ba:31:2f:01:f5:01::10.20.245.1/304 MAC/IP (1 entry, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.2:38000
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x5601cdb53edc
Next-hop reference count: 1067
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.4.2
Protocol next hop: 192.168.4.2
Label operation: Push 12531
Label TTL action: prop-ttl
Load balance label: Label 12531: None;

439
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
State: <Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 27:27 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001_42100000.192.168.4.2
AS path: 4210000001 I
Communities: target:5003:6001 target:60003:60001 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) router-
mac:74:e7:98:61:44:76
Import Accepted
Route Label: 200501
Route Label: 9100501
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.4.2
Secondary Tables: VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1.evpn.0 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-1.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.4.2 ResolvState: Resolved
Label operation: Push 12531
Label TTL action: prop-ttl
Load balance label: Label 12531: None;
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
Session Id: 0
192.168.4.2/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.11.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.13.0 via irb.4004
Session Id: 0

440
Layer 2 Data Center Interconnect
Configure the VLANs for symmetric routing and seamless stitching. Seamless stitching requires that
interconnected gateway devices use the same translation-vni.
NOTE: You are required to configure set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan vxlan-trans-vni-enable
on QFX5120 series switches to enable Layer 2 stitching. The packet forwarding engine
(PFE) will restart once this configuration is applied, resulting in a restart of the associated
FPC and interfaces.
NOTE: You are required to configure set system packet-forwarding-options system-profile
vxlan-stitching on ACX Series routers to enable Layer 2 stitching. The PFE will restart
once this configuration is applied.
NOTE: You can configure the following parameters on ACX Series routers to enable load
balancing based on traffic payload.
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-3
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-4
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-3
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-4
set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice source-mac
set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice destination-mac
Configure the translation VNI on DC2-GW21 for all gateway devices.
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 l3-interface
irb.2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan vni
120002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan
translation-vni 920001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 l3-interface
irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 vxlan vni
120003

441
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 vxlan
translation-vni 920002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4 l3-interface
irb.4
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4 vxlan vni
120004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4 vxlan
translation-vni 920003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-5 vlan-id 5
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-5 l3-interface
irb.5
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-5 vxlan vni
120005
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-5 vxlan
translation-vni 920004
Verify the EVPN routes on DC2-GW21 advertised to the DCI. Show the EVPN database for the
specified MAC-VRF and VNI. The dci-adv option is specific to showing MAC advertisements to DCI
gateway nodes:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn database state dci-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 l2-
domain-id 120002
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
120002 0c:59:9c:6f:7a:a0 192.168.0.4 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.12.2.248
2001:db8::10:12:2:248
fe80::e59:9c00:26f:7aa0
120002 4c:6d:58:00:00:00 192.168.0.5 Oct 06 04:33:21 10.12.2.249
2001:db8::10:12:2:249
fe80::4e6d:5800:200:0
120002 68:22:8e:e3:ad:df 192.168.4.4 Oct 06 04:33:22 10.12.2.247
2001:db8::10:12:2:247
fe80::6a22:8e00:2e3:addf
120002 be:51:2f:00:02:01 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:01:00:03 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.12.2.101

442
2001:db8::10:12:2:65
120002 be:52:2f:00:02:01 192.168.0.6 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.12.2.111
2001:db8::10:12:2:6f
120002 be:53:2f:00:02:01 et-0/0/8:0.0 Oct 06 05:52:00 10.12.2.2
120002 c8:fe:6a:2d:56:00 192.168.0.6 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.12.2.250
2001:db8::10:12:2:250
fe80::cafe:6a00:22d:5600
120002 f8:c1:16:01:28:07 irb.2 Oct 06 05:52:00 10.12.2.246
2001:db8::10:12:2:246
fe80::fac1:1600:201:2807
Verify the EVPN routes on DC2-GW21 advertised to the data center. Show the EVPN database for the
specified MAC-VRF and VNI. The dc-adv statement is specific to showing MAC advertisements to data
center gateway nodes:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn database state dc-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 l2-
domain-id 920001
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
920001 0c:59:9c:8c:46:e4 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:26 10.11.2.245
2001:db8::10:11:2:245
fe80::e59:9c00:28c:46e4
920001 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:26 10.11.2.241
2001:db8::10:11:2:241
fe80::4e73:4f00:2e6:4f80
920001 74:e7:98:61:44:76 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.11.2.242
2001:db8::10:11:2:242
fe80::76e7:9800:261:4476
920001 a4:51:5e:3e:1a:0e 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.11.2.243

443
2001:db8::10:11:2:243
fe80::a651:5e00:23e:1a0e
920001 ba:51:2f:00:02:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.11.2.1
2001:db8::10:11:2:1
920001 ba:52:2f:00:02:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.11.2.11
2001:db8::10:11:2:b
920001 e8:a2:45:e2:a6:b0 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.11.2.244
2001:db8::10:11:2:244
fe80::eaa2:4500:2e2:a6b0
Configure the interconnect vrf-target and route-distinguisher for DC1 interconnect gateway (iGW) devices
on DC1-GW12. These must be different from the vrf-target and route-distinguisher configured for the
local DC:
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.2:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-
active
Add the previously defined translation VNIs to the DC1 interconnect configuration under the MAC-VRF:
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920004

444
Configure the interconnect vrf-target and route-distinguisher for DC2 iGW devices. These must be different
from the vrf-target and route-distinguisher configured for the local DC:
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi all-
active
Add the previously defined translation VNIs to the DC2 interconnect configuration under the MAC-VRF:
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920004
Verify the remote VTEP on DC1-GW12:
user@DC1-GW12> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance MACVRF-mac-
vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.4.2 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-
IP Flags
192.168.0.1 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088664 vtep-189.32778 92700 RNVE
192.168.4.1 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088659 vtep-189.32777 92699 I-ESI-Peer
192.168.0.2 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088654 vtep-189.32776 94266 RNVE
192.168.0.3 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088669 vtep-189.32779 123079 RNVE
192.168.4.3 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088649 vtep-189.32775 97029 Wan-VTEP
192.168.4.4 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088644 vtep-189.32774 97028 Wan-VTEP

445
Verify Type 2 stitching on DC1-GW12:
user@DC1-GW12> show evpn instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 dci extensive | except irb
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.2:33302
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
Control word enabled
Duplicate MAC detection threshold: 5
Duplicate MAC detection window: 180
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 101 2426
MAC+IP advertisements: 505 3939
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 202 0
Number of local interfaces: 1 (1 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
.local..189 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 all-active Up Root
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
Number of protect interfaces: 0
Number of bridge domains: 101
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-Peer
Flow-label
192.168.0.1 204 505 2 101 0
NO
192.168.0.2 202 505 2 101 0
NO
192.168.0.3 202 505 0 101 0
NO
192.168.4.1 202 505 104 202 0
NO
192.168.4.3 808 2121 2 101 0 DCI
NO
192.168.4.4 808 2121 2 101 0 DCI
NO
Number of ethernet segments: 104
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:04:00:01 I-ESI
Local interface: .local..189, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.4.1 0 0 all-active

446
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.4.1
Backup forwarder: 192.168.4.2
Last designated forwarder update: Oct 05 23:33:14
Router-ID: 192.168.4.2
Source VTEP interface IP: 192.168.4.2
SMET Forwarding: Disabled
EVPN-Interconnect:
Route-distinguisher: 192.168.4.2:46000
Vrf-import: [ __evpn-ic-import-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-export: [ __evpn-ic-export-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-import-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
Vrf-export-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
DCI route stats Local
AD route advertisements: 1
IM route advertisements: 101
MAC route advertisements: 1517
MAC+IP route advertisements: 4040
ES route advertisements: 0
SG Proxy route advertisements: 0
Verify the remote VTEP on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance MACVRF-mac-
vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.4.3 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-
IP Flags
192.168.4.1 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088654 vtep-207.32776 93880 Wan-VTEP
192.168.4.2 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088659 vtep-207.32777 125332 Wan-VTEP
192.168.0.4 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088664 vtep-207.32778 123340 RNVE
192.168.4.4 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088649 vtep-207.32775 94258 I-ESI-Peer
192.168.0.5 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088644 vtep-207.32774 97821 RNVE
192.168.0.6 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 671088669 vtep-207.32779 123742 RNVE
Verify Type 2 Stitching on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 dci extensive | except irb

447
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.4.3:33302
Encapsulation type: VXLAN
Control word enabled
Duplicate MAC detection threshold: 5
Duplicate MAC detection window: 180
MAC database status Local Remote
MAC advertisements: 101 2428
MAC+IP advertisements: 505 3939
Default gateway MAC advertisements: 202 0
Number of local interfaces: 1 (1 up)
Interface name ESI Mode Status AC-Role
.local..207 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 all-active Up Root
Interface name VLAN VNI Status L3 context
Number of protect interfaces: 0
Number of bridge domains: 101
Number of neighbors: 6
Address MAC MAC+IP AD IM ES Leaf-label Remote-DCI-Peer
Flow-label
192.168.0.4 202 505 2 101 0
NO
192.168.0.5 202 505 2 101 0
NO
192.168.0.6 202 505 0 101 0
NO
192.168.4.1 810 2121 2 101 0 DCI
NO
192.168.4.2 810 2121 2 101 0 DCI
NO
192.168.4.4 202 505 104 202 0
NO
Number of ethernet segments: 104
ESI: 00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:04:00:01 I-ESI
Local interface: .local..207, Status: Up/Forwarding
Number of remote PEs connected: 1
Remote-PE MAC-label Aliasing-label Mode
192.168.4.4 0 0 all-active
DF Election Algorithm: MOD based
Designated forwarder: 192.168.4.3
Backup forwarder: 192.168.4.4
Last designated forwarder update: Oct 05 23:33:13
Router-ID: 192.168.4.3

448
Source VTEP interface IP: 192.168.4.3
SMET Forwarding: Disabled
EVPN-Interconnect:
Route-distinguisher: 192.168.4.3:46000
Vrf-import: [ __evpn-ic-import-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-export: [ __evpn-ic-export-MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1-internal__ ]
Vrf-import-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
Vrf-export-target: [ target:60005:60001 ]
DCI route stats Local
AD route advertisements: 1
IM route advertisements: 101
MAC route advertisements: 1618
MAC+IP route advertisements: 4242
ES route advertisements: 0
SG Proxy route advertisements: 0
Configure Layer 2 stitching with non-translated global VNIs on DC2-GW21:
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vlan-id 501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 l3-interface irb.501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vxlan vni 200501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vlan-id 502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 l3-interface irb.502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vxlan vni 200502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vlan-id 503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 l3-interface irb.503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vxlan vni 200503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-504 vlan-id 504
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-504 l3-interface irb.504
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-504 vxlan vni 200504
Verify non-translated global VNIs on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn database state dci-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 l2-domain-
id 200501
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
200501 00:00:5e:00:00:04 00:00:ff:ee:22:02:00:00:00:01 Oct 06 05:51:59 10.21.245.254
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:254

449
200501 0c:59:9c:6f:7a:a0 192.168.0.4 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.21.245.248
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:248
fe80::e59:9c01:f56f:7aa0
200501 4c:6d:58:00:00:00 192.168.0.5 Oct 06 04:33:21 10.21.245.249
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:249
fe80::4e6d:5801:f500:0
200501 68:22:8e:e3:ad:df 192.168.4.4 Oct 06 04:33:23 10.21.245.247
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:247
fe80::6a22:8e01:f5e3:addf
200501 be:31:2f:01:f5:01 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:02:00:04 Oct 06 04:33:29 10.21.245.101
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:65
200501 be:32:2f:01:f5:01 192.168.0.6 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.21.245.111
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:6f
200501 c8:fe:6a:2d:56:00 192.168.0.6 Oct 06 04:33:26 10.21.245.250
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:250
fe80::cafe:6a01:f52d:5600
200501 f8:c1:16:01:28:07 irb.501 Oct 06 05:51:59 10.21.245.246
2001:db8::21:0:1f5:246
fe80::fac1:1601:f501:2807
Verify the EVPN routes advertised to the data center on DC2-GW21:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn database state dc-adv instance MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 l2-domain-
id 200501
Instance: MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1
VLAN DomainId MAC address Active source Timestamp IP address
200501 0c:59:9c:8c:46:e4 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.245
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:245

450
fe80::e59:9c01:f58c:46e4
200501 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:27 10.20.245.241
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:241
fe80::4e73:4f01:f5e6:4f80
200501 74:e7:98:61:44:76 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.242
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:242
fe80::76e7:9801:f561:4476
200501 a4:51:5e:3e:1a:0e 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.243
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:243
fe80::a651:5e01:f53e:1a0e
200501 ba:31:2f:01:f5:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.1
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:1
200501 ba:32:2f:01:f5:01 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.11
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:b
200501 e8:a2:45:e2:a6:b0 00:00:ff:ff:00:11:00:02:00:01 Oct 06 04:33:28 10.20.245.244
2001:db8::20:0:1f5:244
fe80::eaa2:4501:f5e2:a6b0
Type 5 Stitching
Type 5 stitching is Juniper Networks recommended method for advertising the router MAC address. The
router MAC address and Layer 3 VNI are how data is forwarded in a stitched environment. Type 2
symmetric routing only carries the Layer 2 and Layer 3 VNI information to the remote gateways and
does not perform data forwarding. Configure Type 5 stitching on DC2-GW21:
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:5003:6001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher
192.168.4.3:44000

451
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise
direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 9100501
Verify the Type 5 routes on DC2-GW21 being exported or stitched to the remote gateways and local
leaf nodes:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 direction
exported family inet
L3 context: VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1
IPv4->EVPN Exported Prefixes
Prefix EVPN route status
10.20.245.0/24 DC Created
10.20.245.1/32 DC Created
10.20.245.11/32 DC Created
10.20.245.241/32 DC Created
Verify the Type 5 routes on DC2-GW21 being imported or stitched from the remote gateways and the
local leaf nodes:
user@DC2-GW21> show evpn ip-prefix-database l3-context VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 direction
imported family inet
L3 context: VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1
EVPN->IPv4 Imported Prefixes
Prefix Etag
10.20.245.0/24 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI Route-Status
Reject-Reason
192.168.4.1:44000 9100501 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 192.168.4.1 Accepted n/
a
192.168.4.2:44000 9100501 74:e7:98:61:44:76 192.168.4.2 Accepted n/
a
10.20.245.1/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI Route-Status
Reject-Reason

452
192.168.4.1:44000 9100501 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 192.168.4.1 Accepted
n/a
192.168.4.2:44000 9100501 74:e7:98:61:44:76 192.168.4.2 Accepted n/
a
10.20.245.11/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI Route-Status
Reject-Reason
192.168.4.1:44000 9100501 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 192.168.4.1 Accepted n/
a
192.168.4.2:44000 9100501 74:e7:98:61:44:76 192.168.4.2 Accepted n/
a
10.20.245.241/32 0
Route distinguisher VNI/Label Router MAC Nexthop/Overlay GW/ESI Route-Status
Reject-Reason
192.168.4.1:44000 9100501 4c:73:4f:e6:4f:80 192.168.4.1 Accepted n/
a
Interconnect Multihoming for DCI Gateway Peers
Configure multihoming on DC2-GW21 for redundancy. A full discussion of multihoming is beyond the
scope of this document. For more about multihoming, see EVPN Multihoming Overview.
set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways <VTEP-IP of each DCI-GW peer in local
DC>
Here is the same example with a device from our topology.
user@DC2-GW21# set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways 192.168.4.4
NOTE: You must configure interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways globally.
set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways
It cannot be configured within a MAC-VRF, as shown.
set routing-instances <instance-name> protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-
gateways

453
Verify multihoming on DC2-GW21 is working properly. You can see the multihomed peer has the
designation of I-ESI-Peer:
user@DC2-GW21> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance MACVRF-mac-
vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.4.3 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-
IP Flags
192.168.4.1 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088652 vtep-868.32776 121062 Wan-VTEP
192.168.4.2 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088657 vtep-868.32777 85558 Wan-VTEP
192.168.0.4 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088662 vtep-868.32778 117187 RNVE
192.168.4.4 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088647 vtep-868.32775 113257 I-ESI-Peer
192.168.0.5 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088642 vtep-868.32774 89355 RNVE
192.168.0.6 MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 671088667 vtep-868.32779 116701 RNVE
Configurations for DC2-GW21 and DC2-Leaf21
Configurations are provided for reference only. Do not copy and paste these configurations as-is into
your devices. Configurations for other gateway and leaf nodes will be similar. These configurations have
been truncated for readability.
DC2-GW21
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 64
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.11.1/31
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet mtu 9000
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family iso
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members UNDERLAY-VLAN-4004
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active

454
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae3 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.15.1/31
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet mtu 9000
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family iso
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 vlan-id 4093
set interfaces ae3 vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.17.1/31
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family inet mtu 9000
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family iso
set interfaces et-0/0/0 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces et-0/0/3 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-1/0/0 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-1/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-1/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces et-1/0/3 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces irb mtu 1514
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet address 10.12.10.246/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet address 10.12.10.246/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.12.10.254
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:a:246/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:a:246/112 virtual-gateway-address
2001:db8::12:0:a:254
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-esi all-active 00:00:ff:ee:22:04:00:00:00:09
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.12.100.246/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.12.100.246/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.12.100.254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:64:246/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:64:246/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::12:0:64:254
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-esi all-active 00:00:ff:ee:22:04:00:00:00:63
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04

455
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet address 10.33.233.246/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet address 10.33.233.246/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.33.233.254
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:246/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:246/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:254
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-esi all-active 00:00:ff:ee:22:01:00:00:00:01
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit <*> family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.4.3/32 primary
set interfaces lo0 unit 10 family inet
set interfaces lo0 unit 1001 family inet
set policy-options community VRF-3-1-COMM members target:5003:6001
set policy-options community VRF-3-10-COMM members target:5003:6010
set policy-options community VRF-3-11-COMM members target:5003:6011
set policy-options community wan_underlay_comm members 12345:12345
set policy-options policy-statement per-packet-load-balance term 1 then load-balance per-packet
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan from community
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term from_wan then reject
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term def then reject
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then accept
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export-wan term loopback then community add
wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import from community wan_underlay_comm
set policy-options policy-statement wan_import then local-preference subtract 10
set protocols bgp graceful-restart
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp authentication-key overlay_ebgp_admin
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-
delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-address 192.168.4.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multihop no-nexthop-change

456
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.6.1 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.6.2 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp vpn-apply-export
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci authentication-key overlay_ebgp_dci_admin
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements
minimum-delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci family route-target external-paths 2
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-address 192.168.4.3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci local-as 4210000002
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.1 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci neighbor 192.168.4.2 peer-as 4210000001
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp-extn-dci type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp authentication-key underlay_ebgp_admin
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp family inet
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.15.0 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.17.0 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan authentication-key underlay_ebgp_admin
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan export underlay-clos-export-wan
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan import wan_import
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan local-as 4200000033
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.11.0 peer-as 4200000062
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan neighbor 172.16.13.0 peer-as 4200000061
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp-wan type external
set protocols bgp log-updown

457
set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways [ 192.168.4.4 ]
set protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-ip-table-aging-time 3600
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-table-aging-time 4200
set protocols lldp interface all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-
community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:0:00:1 all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 401503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:30000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60001:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401501 vrf-
target target:2:401501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401502 vrf-
target target:2:401502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401503 vrf-
target target:2:401503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:34801
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 l3-interface
irb.1501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 vlan-id 1501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 vxlan vni 401501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 l3-interface
irb.1502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 vlan-id 1502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 vxlan vni 401502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1503 l3-interface
irb.1503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1503 vlan-id 1503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1503 vxlan vni 401503

458
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-target target:33302:1501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-
gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:1:00:1 all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 930001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 930002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 930003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:34000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:60002:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311001 vrf-target target:2:311001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311002 vrf-target target:2:311002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311003 vrf-target target:2:311003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:34301
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 l3-
interface irb.1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 vlan-id
1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 vxlan
translation-vni 930001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 vxlan vni
311001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 l3-
interface irb.1002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 vlan-id
1002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 vxlan
translation-vni 930002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 vxlan vni

459
311002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 l3-
interface irb.1003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 vlan-id
1003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 vxlan
translation-vni 930003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 vxlan vni
311003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-target target:33302:1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-
community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:2:00:1 all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 200501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 200502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-
vni-list 200503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:38000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:60003:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:33801
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 l3-interface irb.501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vlan-id 501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vxlan vni 200501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 l3-interface irb.502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vlan-id 502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vxlan vni 200502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 l3-interface irb.503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vlan-id 503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vxlan vni 200503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target target:33302:501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-

460
gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:4:00:1 all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 920003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:46000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:60005:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:33302
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 l3-interface
irb.10
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 vlan-id 10
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 vxlan
translation-vni 920009
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 vxlan vni
120010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-100 l3-interface
irb.100
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-100 vlan-id 100
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-100 vxlan
translation-vni 920099
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-100 vxlan vni
120100
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-101 l3-interface
irb.101
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-101 vlan-id 101
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-101 vxlan
translation-vni 920100
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-101 vxlan vni
120101
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target target:33302:2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn default-gateway
no-gateway-community

461
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list
all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect esi
00:00:ff:ff:00:22:00:5:00:1 all-active
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 940001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 940002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 940003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect
interconnected-vni-list 940004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect
route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:50000
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:60006:60001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 route-distinguisher
192.168.4.3:37310
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 l3-
interface irb.4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 vlan-
id 4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 vxlan
translation-vni 940001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 vxlan
vni 244010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 l3-
interface irb.4011
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 vlan-
id 4011
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 vxlan
translation-vni 940002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 vxlan
vni 244011
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 l3-
interface irb.4012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 vlan-
id 4012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 vxlan
translation-vni 940003

462
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 vxlan
vni 244012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 l3-
interface irb.4013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 vlan-
id 4013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 vxlan
translation-vni 940004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 vxlan
vni 244013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vrf-target target:33302:4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1502
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1503
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1504
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface lo0.1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-target target:100:1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1537
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1538
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1539
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1540
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface lo0.1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 vrf-target target:100:1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1002
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1003
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1004
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface lo0.1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-target target:100:1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1037
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1038
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1039

463
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1040
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface lo0.1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 vrf-target target:100:1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.502
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.503
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.504
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface lo0.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-distinguisher
192.168.4.3:44000
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:5003:6001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise
direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 9100501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni 9100501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target export target:500:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target import target:400:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.4094
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.5
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface lo0.2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:48000
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target
target:5005:6001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
encapsulation vxlan

464
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni
9100002
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni
9100002
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-transl-1-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target export target:500:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target import target:400:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface irb.4010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface irb.4011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface irb.4012
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface irb.4013
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface lo0.4010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect route-
distinguisher 192.168.4.3:50000
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn interconnect vrf-
target target:5006:6001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni
9104010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-
routing vni 9104010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.4.3:4010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-
t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vrf-target export target:500:4010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vrf-target import target:400:4010
set routing-options forwarding-table chained-composite-next-hop ingress evpn
set routing-options forwarding-table ecmp-fast-reroute
set routing-options forwarding-table export per-packet-load-balance
set routing-options resolution rib bgp.rtarget.0 resolution-ribs inet.0
set routing-options router-id 192.168.4.3
set system arp aging-timer 60

465
set vlans UNDERLAY-VLAN-4004 l3-interface irb.4004
set vlans UNDERLAY-VLAN-4004 vlan-id 4004
NOTE: On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, also configure the host-profile unified
forwarding profile option to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2
Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
DC2-Leaf21
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 64
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan vxlan-trans-vni-enable
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing interface-num 8192
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 49152
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing overlay-ecmp
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae1 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.19.0/31
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet mtu 9000
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family iso
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.20.0/31
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet mtu 9000
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family iso
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:1:00:3
set interfaces ae3 esi all-active
set interfaces ae3 native-vlan-id 4094
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-100
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-101

466
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae4 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:2:00:4
set interfaces ae4 esi all-active
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502
set interfaces ae4 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503
set interfaces ae5 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae5 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10
set interfaces ae5 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae5 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae5 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:3:00:5
set interfaces ae5 esi all-active
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002
set interfaces ae5 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003
set interfaces ae6 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae6 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10
set interfaces ae6 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae6 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae6 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:4:00:6
set interfaces ae6 esi all-active
set interfaces ae6 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae6 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501
set interfaces ae6 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502
set interfaces ae6 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1503
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae7 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:5:00:7
set interfaces ae7 esi all-active
set interfaces ae7 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae7 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3001
set interfaces ae7 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3002
set interfaces ae7 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3003
set interfaces ae7 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3004
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 10

467
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae8 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:11:00:6:00:8
set interfaces ae8 esi all-active
set interfaces ae8 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces ae8 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010
set interfaces ae8 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011
set interfaces ae8 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012
set interfaces ae8 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013
set interfaces et-0/0/0 ether-options 802.3ad ae7
set interfaces et-0/0/0 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/0 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces et-0/0/1 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/1 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/11 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces et-0/0/12 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/13 ether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces et-0/0/2 ether-options 802.3ad ae8
set interfaces et-0/0/2 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/2 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/3 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces et-0/0/3 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/3 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/4 ether-options 802.3ad ae5
set interfaces et-0/0/4 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/4 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/6 ether-options 802.3ad ae6
set interfaces et-0/0/6 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces et-0/0/6 hold-time up 500000
set interfaces et-0/0/9 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces irb mtu 1500
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet address 10.120.10.248/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet address 10.120.10.248/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.120.10.254
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:a:248/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 10 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:a:248/112 virtual-gateway-address
2001:db8::12:0:a:254
set interfaces irb unit 10 no-auto-virtual-gateway-esi
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 10 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.120.100.248/24 preferred

468
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet address 10.120.100.248/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.120.100.254
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:64:248/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 100 family inet6 address 2001:db8::12:0:64:248/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::12:0:64:254
set interfaces irb unit 100 no-auto-virtual-gateway-esi
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 100 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet address 10.33.233.248/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet address 10.33.233.248/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.33.233.254
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:248/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1001 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:248/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::30:0:3e9:254
set interfaces irb unit 1001 no-auto-virtual-gateway-esi
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1001 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1002 family inet address 10.33.234.248/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1002 family inet address 10.33.234.248/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.33.234.254
set interfaces irb unit 1002 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3ea:248/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1002 family inet6 address 2001:db8::30:0:3ea:248/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::30:0:3ea:254
set interfaces irb unit 1002 no-auto-virtual-gateway-esi
set interfaces irb unit 1002 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1002 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1002 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit <*> family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.0.4/32 preferred
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.0.4/32 primary
set interfaces lo0 unit 10 family inet
set interfaces lo0 unit 1001 family inet
set policy-options policy-statement per-packet-load-balance term 1 then load-balance per-packet
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp graceful-restart
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp authentication-key overlay_ebgp_admin
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-

469
delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-address 192.168.0.4
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-as 4200000014
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multihop no-nexthop-change
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.6.1 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.6.2 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp vpn-apply-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp authentication-key underlay_ebgp_admin
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp family inet
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000014
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.19.1 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.20.1 peer-as 4200000042
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set protocols bgp log-updown
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-ip-table-aging-time 3600
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-table-aging-time 4200
set protocols lldp interface all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface ae6.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-
community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401501 vrf-
target target:2:401501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401502 vrf-
target target:2:401502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni 401503 vrf-
target target:2:401503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:34801
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 l3-interface
irb.1501

470
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 vlan-id 1501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1501 vxlan vni 401501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 l3-interface
irb.1502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 vlan-id 1502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1502 vxlan vni 401502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-target target:33302:1501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface ae5.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-
gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311001 vrf-target target:2:311001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311002 vrf-target target:2:311002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 protocols evpn vni-options vni
311003 vrf-target target:2:311003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:34301
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 l3-
interface irb.1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 vlan-id
1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1001 vxlan vni
311001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 l3-
interface irb.1002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 vlan-id
1002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1002 vxlan vni
311002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 l3-
interface irb.1003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 vlan-id
1003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-1003 vxlan vni
311003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-target target:33302:1001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 instance-type mac-vrf

471
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface ae4.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-
community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:33801
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 l3-interface irb.501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vlan-id 501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-501 vxlan vni 200501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 l3-interface irb.502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vlan-id 502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-502 vxlan vni 200502
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 l3-interface irb.503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vlan-id 503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-503 vxlan vni 200503
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target target:33302:501
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 interface ae7.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-
community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:36301
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3001 l3-interface
irb.3001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3001 vlan-id 3001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3001 vxlan vni 223001
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3002 l3-interface
irb.3002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3002 vlan-id 3002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3002 vxlan vni 223002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3003 l3-interface
irb.3003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3003 vlan-id 3003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3003 vxlan vni 223003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3004 l3-interface
irb.3004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3004 vlan-id 3004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3004 vxlan vni 223004
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vrf-target target:33302:3001

472
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-dhcp-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface ae3.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-
gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:33302
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 vlan-id 10
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-10 vxlan vni
120010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 l3-interface
irb.2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-2 vxlan vni
120002
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 l3-interface
irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-3 vxlan vni
120003
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target target:33302:2
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 interface ae8.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn default-gateway
no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list
all
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 route-distinguisher
192.168.0.4:37310
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 l3-
interface irb.4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 vlan-
id 4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4010 vxlan
vni 244010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 l3-
interface irb.4011

473
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 vlan-
id 4011
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4011 vxlan
vni 244011
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 l3-
interface irb.4012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 vlan-
id 4012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4012 vxlan
vni 244012
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 l3-
interface irb.4013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 vlan-
id 4013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vlans EP-TYPE-2-VLAN-4013 vxlan
vni 244013
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vrf-target target:33302:4010
set routing-instances MACVRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-Tenant-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1502
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1503
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface irb.1504
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 interface lo0.1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-1 vrf-target target:100:1501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1537
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1538
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1539
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface irb.1540
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 interface lo0.1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-10 vrf-target target:100:1510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 interface irb.1541
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 interface irb.1542
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 interface irb.1543
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 interface irb.1544
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-2-11 interface lo0.1511
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 instance-type vrf

474
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1002
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1003
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface irb.1004
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 interface lo0.1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-1 vrf-target target:100:1001
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1037
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1038
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1039
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface irb.1040
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 interface lo0.1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-10 vrf-target target:100:1010
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 interface irb.1041
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 interface irb.1042
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 interface irb.1043
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 interface irb.1044
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 interface lo0.1011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:1011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-asymm-transl-2-11 vrf-target target:100:1011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.502
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.503
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface irb.504
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 interface lo0.501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise
direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 9100501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni 9100501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-table-label

475
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target export target:400:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-1 vrf-target import target:500:501
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 interface irb.537
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 interface irb.538
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 interface irb.539
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 interface irb.540
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 interface lo0.510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes advertise
direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes encapsulation
vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni 9100510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni
9100510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-1-10.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 vrf-target export target:400:510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-10 vrf-target import target:500:510
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 interface irb.541
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 interface irb.542
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 interface irb.543
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 interface irb.544
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-1-11 interface lo0.511
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.4094
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface irb.5
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 interface lo0.2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni
9100002
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing vni
9100002

476
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-transl-1-1.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target export target:400:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-1 vrf-target import target:500:2
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 interface irb.38
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 interface irb.39
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 interface irb.40
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 interface irb.41
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 interface lo0.11
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
advertise direct-nexthop
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes
encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 protocols evpn ip-prefix-routes vni
9100011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 protocols evpn irb-symmetric-routing
vni 9100011
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:11
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 routing-options multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 routing-options rib VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-
symm-transl-1-10.inet6.0 multipath
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 vrf-table-label
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 vrf-target export target:400:11
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-10 vrf-target import target:500:11
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 interface irb.42
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 interface irb.43
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 interface irb.44
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 interface irb.45
set routing-instances VRF-mac-vrf-ep-t2-symm-transl-1-11 interface lo0.12
set routing-options forwarding-table chained-composite-next-hop ingress evpn
set routing-options forwarding-table ecmp-fast-reroute
set routing-options forwarding-table export per-packet-load-balance
set routing-options protect core
set routing-options router-id 192.168.0.4
set switch-options route-distinguisher 192.168.0.4:20000
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:2

477
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set system arp aging-timer 60
Configure EVPN-VXLAN Data Center Stitching
Through Interconnected EVPN-MPLS WAN
Gateways
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
You can seamlessly stitch Ethernet VPN Virtual Topology | 477
Extensible LAN (EVPN-VXLAN) data centers through
Configuration | 478
WAN gateway devices running EVPN-MPLS.
This article outlines the configuration necessary to stitch an EVPN-VXLAN data center to another
EVPN-VXLAN data center, while traversing an EVPN-MPLS WAN fabric. Your WAN could be
geographically dispersed or local to the same data center where the EVPN-VXLAN points of delivery
(PODS) reside. See RFC 9014.
Topology
The following diagram shows two EVPN-VXLAN data centers connected through an EVPN-MPLS WAN,
using the gateway model. Each gateway is configured with an EVPN MAC-VRF routing instance. Each
MAC-VRF instance uses VXLAN encapsulation, and the interconnect within each MAC-VRF instance
uses MPLS encapsulation.

478
EVPN-VLXAN through EVPN-MPLS WAN
Configuration
Follow the steps below to configure a pair of gateways. We'll show the relevant configuration for DC1
Spine1 and DC2 Spine1. Full device configurations are beyond the scope of this document.
Feature support is determined by the platform and release you are using. Use Feature Explorer to
determine if a feature is supported on your platform.
1. Configure a MAC VRF routing instance.
set routing-instances instance-name instance-type mac-vrf
2. Configure the EVPN protocol.
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn
3. Configure VXLAN encapsulation and supporting elements.
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
4. Configure the interconnect statement and supporting elements.
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect vrf-target target:x:x
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect route-distiguisher rd
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect interconnected-vlan-list

479
[ vlans ]
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect encapsulation mpls
5. Based on the platform you're configuring, set these platform-specific options as required:
• (QFX5120 switches) You are required to configure the following to enable Layer 2 stitching:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan vxlan-trans-vni-enable
The packet forwarding engine (PFE) restarts when you apply this configuration, and the
associated FPC and interfaces restart. See the evpn-vxlan statement page for more information
on the vxlan-trans-vni-enable option.
• (ACX Series routers) You are required to configure the following on ACX Series routers to support
an IPv6 underlay:
set system packet-forwarding-options system-profile vxlan-extended
Refer to vxlan-extended for additional information.
• (ACX Series routers) You are required to configure the following to enable Layer 2 stitching. The
PFE restarts when you apply this configuration.
set system packet-forwarding-options system-profile vxlan-stitching
Refer to vxlan-stitching for additional details related to control-word support in EVPN-VXLAN
and EVPN-MPLS environments, and further ACX requirements.
• (ACX Series routers) You can configure the following parameters to enable load balancing based
on traffic payload:
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-3
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet layer-4
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-3
set forwarding-options hash-key family inet6 layer-4
set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice source-mac
set forwarding-options hash-key family multiservice destination-mac
Refer to hash-key (Forwarding Options) for additional information and requirements related to
ACX Series and PTX Series devices.

480
• (ACX Series routers) For features such as EVPN-VXLAN, if you have a requirement for a higher
Layer 2 MAC scale, then we recommend that you migrate to the “cloud-metro” profile. You set
this profile at the [edit system packet-forwarding-options hw-db-profile] hierarchy level. ACX7024
devices support only the lean-edge and cloud-metro profile options. Refer to hw-db-profile for more
information and ACX Series router requirements for these profile options.
set system packet-forwarding-options hw-db-profile cloud-metro
6. Configure the interconnect Ethernet segment identifier (ESI) and supporting elements.
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect esi esi
set routing-instance instance-name protocols evpn interconnect esi all-active
7. Configure additional elements of the MAC-VRF instance.
set routing-instance instance-name vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instance instance-name service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instance instance-name interface interface
set routing-instance instance-name route-distinguisher rd
set routing-instance instance-name vrf-target target:x:x
8. Configure VLANs.
set routing-instance instance-name vlans vlan-name vlan-id value
set routing-instance instance-name vlans vlan-name l3-interface interface
set routing-instance instance-name vlans vlan-name vxlan vni vni
See the following example configuration for DC1 Spine1. Change any values to match your existing
network.
user@device> show configuration routing-instances evpn-vxlan
instance-type mac-vrf;
protocols {
evpn {
encapsulation vxlan;
default-gateway no-gateway-community;
extended-vni-list all;
interconnect {
vrf-target target:2:2;
route-distinguisher 100:110;

481
esi {
00:0a:0b:0c:0d:0a:0b:0c:0d:0a;
all-active;
}
interconnected-vlan-list [ 51 52 ];
encapsulation mpls;
}
}
}
vtep-source-interface lo0.0;
service-type vlan-aware;
interface et-0/0/7.0;
interface et-0/0/9.0;
route-distinguisher 100:11;
vrf-target target:1:1;
vlans {
bd51 {
vlan-id 51;
l3-interface irb.51;
vxlan {
vni 501;
}
}
bd52 {
vlan-id 52;
l3-interface irb.52;
vxlan {
vni 502;
}
}
}
See the following example configuration for DC2 Spine1. Change any values to match your existing
network.
user@device> show configuration routing-instances evpn-vxlan
instance-type mac-vrf;
protocols {
evpn {
encapsulation vxlan;
default-gateway no-gateway-community;

482
extended-vni-list all;
interconnect {
vrf-target target:2:2;
route-distinguisher 200:210;
esi {
00:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa;
all-active;
}
interconnected-vlan-list [ 51 52 ];
encapsulation mpls;
}
}
}
vtep-source-interface lo0.0;
service-type vlan-aware;
interface et-0/0/7.0;
interface et-0/0/9.0;
route-distinguisher 200:21;
vrf-target target:3:3;
vlans {
bd51 {
vlan-id 51;
l3-interface irb.51;
vxlan {
vni 501;
}
}
bd52 {
vlan-id 52;
l3-interface irb.52;
vxlan {
vni 502;
}
}
}
NOTE: For multihomed gateway devices, you must include the following statement at
the global level:
set protocols evpn interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways VTEP-IP-of-each-DCI-GW-peer-in-local-
DC

483
You can't configure the above statement within a routing instance.
Also, the statement interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways is renamed in Junos OS Release
24.2R1 to multihoming-peer-gateways to support identifying multihoming peer devices in
multiple use cases. Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 24.4R1, we
restored the interconnect-multihoming-peer-gateways statement name specifically for the
interconnect use case. We've implemented other statements for other feature use cases
too, and you won't see the multihoming-peer-gateways statement in the Junos OS CLI
anymore.
A full discussion of multihoming is beyond the scope of this document. For more about multihoming, see
EVPN Multihoming Overview.
Verification
Confirm that routes are showing in mpls.0.
user@DC1Spine1> show route table mpls.0 protocol evpn | grep "Egress"
102 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-
id 51, ESI 00:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa
103 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-id 51
104 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-
id 52, ESI 00:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa:bb:cc:dd:aa
105 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-id 52
106 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.21, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-id 51
107 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.21, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-MAC, vlan-id 52
108 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.21, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-IM, vlan-id 51
109 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.21, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-IM, vlan-id 52
110 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-IM, vlan-id 51
111 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:22, remote-pe 10.200.22.22, routing-instance evpn-vxlan,
route-type Egress-IM, vlan-id 52
{master}[edit]
user@DC1Spine1> show route table mpls.0 protocol evpn | grep "Ingress"

484
99 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:29, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-MAC, vlan-
id 51
[EVPN/7] 00:21:29, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-Aliasing,
vlan-id 51
100 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:29, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-MAC, vlan-
id 52
[EVPN/7] 00:21:29, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-Aliasing,
vlan-id 52
112 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:28, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-IM, vlan-
id 51
113 *[EVPN/7] 00:21:28, routing-instance evpn-vxlan, route-type Ingress-IM, vlan-
id 52
Confirm that VXLAN VNI's are populating in the EVPN database.
user@DC1Spine1> show evpn database mac-address 00:00:11:11:51:01 extensive
Instance: evpn-vxlan
VN Identifier: 501, MAC address: 00:00:11:11:51:01
State: 0x0
Source: 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Remote origin: 10.11.1.11
Remote state: <Mac-Only-Adv>
Remote origin: 10.11.1.12
Remote state: <Mac-Only-Adv>
Mobility sequence number: 0 (minimum origin address 10.11.1.11)
Timestamp: Jun 28 22:51:12.147619 (0x649c6c08)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
MAC advertisement route status: Not created (no local state present)
Interconn advertisement route status: DCI route created
IP address: 10.100.51.1
Remote origin: 10.11.1.11
Remote state: <Sent-to-l2ald>
Remote origin: 10.11.1.12
Remote state: <Sent-to-l2ald>
Interconn advertisement route status: DCI route created
History db:
Time Event
Jun 28 22:51:09.533 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : Created
Jun 28 22:51:09.541 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : Remote peer 10.11.1.12 created
Jun 28 22:51:09.546 2023 Updating output state (change flags 0x1 <ESI-Added>)
Jun 28 22:51:09.546 2023 Active ESI changing (not assigned ->

485
00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11)
Jun 28 22:51:09.547 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Selected IRB
interface nexthop
Jun 28 22:51:09.547 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Reject remote ip
host route 10.100.51.1 in L3 context VRF-100 since no remote-ip-host-routes configured
Jun 28 22:51:09.733 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Selected IRB
interface nexthop
Jun 28 22:51:09.733 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Reject remote ip
host route 10.100.51.1 in L3 context VRF-100 since no remote-ip-host-routes configured
Jun 28 22:56:46.300 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Selected IRB
interface nexthop
Jun 28 22:56:46.300 2023 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11 : 10.100.51.1 Reject remote ip
host route 10.100.51.1 in L3 context VRF-100 since no remote-ip-host-routes configured
Confirm MAC table entries for an IRB.
user@DC1Spine1> show ethernet-switching table 00:00:11:11:51:01
MAC flags (S - static MAC, D - dynamic MAC, L - locally learned, P - Persistent static
SE - statistics enabled, NM - non configured MAC, R - remote PE MAC, O - ovsdb MAC,
B - Blocked MAC)
Ethernet switching table : 33 entries, 33 learned
Routing instance : evpn-vxlan
Vlan MAC MAC GBP Logical SVLBNH/
Active
name address flags tag interface VENH Index
source
bd51 00:00:11:11:51:01 DR esi.11802
00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11
user@DC1Spine1> show ethernet-switching mac-ip-table 00:00:11:11:51:01
MAC IP flags (S - Static, D - Dynamic, L - Local , R - Remote, Lp - Local Proxy,
Rp - Remote Proxy, K - Kernel, RT - Dest Route, (N)AD - (Not) Advt to remote,
RE - Re-ARP/ND, RO - Router, OV - Override, Ur - Unresolved,
RTS - Dest Route Skipped, RGw - Remote Gateway, GBP - Group Based Policy,
RTF - Dest Route Forced, SC - Static Config, P - Probe, NLC - No Local Config)
Routing instance : evpn-vxlan
Bridging domain : bd51

486
IP MAC Flags GBP
Logical Active
address address Tag
Interface source
10.100.51.1 00:00:11:11:51:01 DR,K,RT
esi.11802 00:11:12:11:11:11:11:11:11:11
user@DC1Spine1> show route forwarding-table destination 00:00:11:11:51:01 vpn evpn-vxlan
Routing table: evpn-vxlan.vpls
VPLS:
Destination Type RtRef Next hop Type Index NhRef Netif
00:00:11:11:51:01/48 user 0 indr 11809 1 .local..56
comp 11802 1
comp 11795 1 vtep.32773
indr 6323 1
sftw 19002 1 et-0/0/1.0
10.11.11.1 ucst 1014 1 et-0/0/1.0
comp 11796 1 vtep.32775
indr 6324 1
sftw 19004 1 et-0/0/3.0
10.12.11.1 ucst 1001 1 et-0/0/3.0
user@DC1Spine1> show arp no-resolve | grep 10.100.51.1
00:00:11:11:51:12 10.100.51.12 irb.51[ et-0/0/9.0 ] permanent remote
Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the Aggregators | 488
Configuring the TOR Devices | 492
Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators | 496
Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices | 499

487
For small MC-LAG networks, you can use static VXLAN to reduce the control plane complexity in your
network. Configuring VTEPs on a static VXLAN is straightforward. Use this example to configure static
VXLAN tunnels with Q-in-Q tagging (VLAN translation) between data centers. In this example, we focus
on the following features:
• Static VXLAN—Static VXLAN connects servers in different data centers by creating a Layer 2 path
(tunnel). For more information about static VXLAN, see Static VXLAN.
• Q-in-Q tunnels—Q-in-Q tunnels segregates and bundles different customer VLAN (C-VLAN) traffic
into a single service provider VLAN.
For more information about Q-in-Q tunnels, see Configuring Q-in-Q Tunneling and VLAN Q-in-Q
Tunneling and VLAN Translation.
• MC-LAG—MC LAG provides redundancy and load balancing. We configure ICL and ICCP connection
between two peer devices to create the MC-LAG. For more information about MC-LAG, see
Understanding Multichassis Link Aggregation Groups
Figure 86 on page 488 shows a portion of a spine-leaf data center (POD). Within the POD, the TOR
devices (TOR1 and TOR2) collect VLANs from the servers below and also manages the VLAN
translations (Q-in-Q tunnels). The aggregators collect VLANs from different TOR devices and function as
the gateway for the POD. We use a static VXLAN tunnel as a gateway between two PODs. We
configure MC-LAG between the peer TOR devices and the peer aggregators. In our reference test
environment, we tested a configuration with 64 pods. For this example, we describe how to configure
the aggregators and TOR devices in a single pod.

488
Figure 86: Data Center POD with Q-in-Q and Static VXLAN Tunnels
This example is configured on top of an existing IP Fabric. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and
Implementation" on page 81.
Configuring the Aggregators
The following section describes how to configure the aggregators.
1. Configure the aggregators to support aggregated Ethernet and MC-LAG.
• Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
• Set the service identifier (SID) for the LAG.
• Configure a loopback address.
• Configure a management port. We use the management interface as an "always up" port to
support the keepalive communication between ICCP peers.

489
AGG1 and AGG2
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 64
set switch-options service-id 1
AGG1
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.1.4/32 primary
set interfaces em0 unit 0 family inet address 10.48.49.69/221
AGG2
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.1.5/32 primary
set nterfaces em0 unit 0 family inet address 10.48.49.117/22
2. Assign the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
• ae0 and ae1 forms the ICL and ICCP links between the aggregators.
• ae3 connects the aggregator to the spine devices.
• ae4 connects the aggregators to the TOR devices.
AGG1 and AGG2
set interfaces xe-0/0/49:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae0
set interfaces xe-0/0/49:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/48:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/50:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces xe-0/0/50:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
3. Enable LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces. Enable LACP with the fast periodic interval to
send a packet every second.
AGG1 and AGG2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:04:01
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp admin-key 4

490
4. Configure the MC-LAG interfaces from the aggregators to the TOR devices and set it to active-active
mode. Set a unique chassis ID for each peer.
AGG1 and AGG2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mc-ae-id 4
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae redundancy-group 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mode active-active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae status-control active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae init-delay-time 300
AGG1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 0
AGG2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 1
5. Configure the ICCP peers (AGG1 and AGG2) across the ICL. We use the IP address of the
management link when we configure backup-liveness-detection to exchange keepalive messages.
AGG1
set interfaces ae0 description "ICCP link Connected to MCLAG peer"
set interfaces ae0 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.10.1/30
set multi-chassis multi-chassis-protection 172.16.10.2 interface ae1
set protocols iccp local-ip-addr 172.16.10.1
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.2 session-establishment-hold-time 600
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.2 redundancy-group-id-list 1
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.2 backup-liveness-detection backup-peer-ip 10.48.49.69
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.2 liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
AGG2
set interfaces ae0 description "ICCP link Connected to MCLAG peer"
set interfaces ae0 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.10.2/30
set multi-chassis multi-chassis-protection 172.16.10.1 interface ae1
set protocols iccp local-ip-addr 172.16.10.2
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.1 session-establishment-hold-time 600
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.1 redundancy-group-id-list 1

491
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.1 backup-liveness-detection backup-peer-ip 10.48.49.117
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.10.1 liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
6. Configure the interfaces to support VLANs.
AGG1 and AGG2
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 vlan-id 3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae1.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae4.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 vlan-id 3001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 interface ae1.3001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 interface ae4.3001
set interfaces ae1 unit 3000 encapsulation vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae1 unit 3000 vlan-id 3000
set interfaces ae1 unit 3001 encapsulation vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae1 unit 3001 vlan-id 3001
set interfaces ae4 description "Connected to TOR1 TOR2"
set interfaces ae4 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae4 encapsulation flexible-ethernet-services
set interfaces ae4 unit 3000 encapsulation vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae4 unit 3000 vlan-id 3000
set interfaces ae4 unit 3001 encapsulation vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae4 unit 3001 vlan-id 3001
7. Configure the interface to the Spine devices.
AGG1
set interfaces ae3 description "Connected to Spine-1"
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.100.2/24
AGG2
set interfaces ae3 description "Connected to Spine-1"
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.200.2/24
8. Enable static VXLAN by configuring the local and remote VTEP interfaces.

492
AGG1 and AGG2
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options remote-vtep-list 192.168.1.6
9. Map the VLANs to the remote VTEP.
AGG1 and AGG2
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 vxlan vni 103000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 vxlan ingress-node-replication
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 vxlan static-remote-vtep-list 192.168.1.6
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 vxlan vni 103001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 vxlan ingress-node-replication
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 vxlan static-remote-vtep-list 192.168.1.6
Configuring the TOR Devices
The following section describes how to configure the TOR devices.
1. Configure the TOR device to support aggregated Ethernet and MC-LAG.
• Set the maximum number of aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
• Set the SID for the LAG.
• Configure a loopback address.
• Configure a management port. We use the management interface as an "always up" port to
support the keepalive communication between ICCP peers.
TOR1 and TOR2
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 64
set switch-options service-id 1
TOR1
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.1.8/32 primary
set interfaces em0 unit 0 family inet address 10.48.49.197/22

493
TOR2
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.1.9/32 primary
set interfaces em0 unit 0 family inet address 10.48.49.196/22
2. Assign the aggregated Ethernet interfaces.
• ae0 and ae1 form the ICL and ICCP link between the TOR devices.
• ae4 connects the TOR devices to the aggregators.
• ae7 and ae8 connect the TOR devices to the servers.
TOR1 and TOR2
set interfaces xe-0/0/0:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae0
set interfaces xe-0/0/0:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae0
set interfaces xe-0/0/0:2 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/0:3 ether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces xe-0/0/1:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces xe-0/0/1:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae4
set interfaces xe-0/0/2:1 ether-options 802.3ad ae7
set interfaces xe-0/0/2:3 ether-options 802.3ad ae8
3. Enable LACP on the aggregated Ethernet interfaces. Enable LACP with a fast periodic interval to
send a packet every second.
TOR1 and TOR2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:04:02
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options lacp admin-key 4
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:07:01
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options lacp admin-key 7

494
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:08:01
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options lacp admin-key 8
4. Configure the interfaces to support VLANs and Q-in-Q translation.
NOTE: When you configure Q-in-Q mapping, the device selects the lowest value in the
VLAN ID range as the outer tag. For example, with a range of 3000-3001 in our vlan-id-
list, our device uses the VLAN 3000 as the outer tag. When the device receives an
outgoing packet with a VLAN in the 3000 to 3001 range, the device pushes an outer
tag of with a VLAN ID of 3000. Conversely, the device strips the outer tag for incoming
packets with a VLAN ID of 3000 in its outer tag.
TOR1 and TOR2
set interfaces ae1 description "ICL link Connected to MCLAG peer"
set interfaces ae1 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae1 encapsulation encapsulation extended-vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae1 unit 3000 vlan-id 3000
set interfaces ae4 description "Connected to AGG1 AGG2"
set interfaces ae4 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae4 encapsulation extended-vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae4 unit 3000 vlan-id-list 3000-3001
set interfaces ae4 unit 3000 input-vlan-map push
set interfaces ae4 unit 3000 output-vlan-map pop
set interfaces ae7 description "Connected to Server1"
set interfaces ae7 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae7 encapsulation extended-vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae7 unit 3000 vlan-id-list 3000-3001
set interfaces ae7 unit 3000 input-vlan-map push
set interfaces ae7 unit 3000 output-vlan-map pop
set interfaces ae8 description "Connected to Server2"
set interfaces ae8 flexible-vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae8 encapsulation extended-vlan-bridge
set interfaces ae8 unit 3000 vlan-id-list 3000-3001

495
set interfaces ae8 unit 3000 input-vlan-map push
set interfaces ae8 unit 3000 output-vlan-map pop
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae1.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae4.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae7.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 interface ae8.3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3000 service-id 3000
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 interface ae4.3001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 interface ae7.3001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 interface ae8.3001
set vlans SP-VLAN-3001 service-id 3001
5. Configure the MC-LAG interfaces from the TOR devices to the aggregators and servers and set it to
active-active mode. Set a unique chassis ID for each peer.
TOR1 and TOR2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mc-ae-id 4
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae redundancy-group 1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mode active-active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae status-control active
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae init-delay-time 300
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mc-ae-id 7
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae redundancy-group 1
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mode active-active
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae status-control active
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae init-delay-time 300
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mc-ae-id 8
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae redundancy-group 1
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae mode active-active
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae status-control active
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae init-delay-time 300
TOR1
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 0
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 0
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 0

496
TOR2
set interfaces ae4 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 1
set interfaces ae7 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 1
set interfaces ae8 aggregated-ether-options mc-ae chassis-id 1
6. Configure ICCP across the ICL between the two TOR peers (TOR1 and TOR2). We use the IP address
of the management link when we configure backup-liveness-detection to exchange keepalive messages.
TOR1
set interfaces ae0 description "ICCP link Connected to MCLAG peer"
set interfaces ae0 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.20.1/30
set multi-chassis multi-chassis-protection 172.16.20.2 interface ae1
set protocols iccp local-ip-addr 172.16.2.1
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.2 session-establishment-hold-time 600
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.2 redundancy-group-id-list 1
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.2 backup-liveness-detection backup-peer-ip 10.48.49.197
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.2 liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
TOR2
set interfaces ae0 description "ICCP link Connected to MCLAG peer"
set interfaces ae0 unit 0 family inet address 172.16.20.2/30
set multi-chassis multi-chassis-protection 172.16.20.1 interface ae1
set protocols iccp local-ip-addr 172.16.20.2
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.1 session-establishment-hold-time 600
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.1 redundancy-group-id-list 1
set protocols iccp peer 17.16.20.1 backup-liveness-detection backup-peer-ip 10.48.49.196
set protocols iccp peer 172.16.20.1 liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
Verify the Static VXLAN Tunnels with Q-in-Q on Aggregators
This section shows how to verify the operation of the aggregators as it manages VLANs through the
static VXLAN tunnels. All commands are issued on AGG1.

497
1. Display the VLAN information.
user@agg1> show vlans
default-switch SP-VLAN-3000 NA
ae1.3000*
ae4.3000*
vtep.32769*
2. Verify the operational status of the multichassis aggregated Ethernet link.
user@agg1> show interfaces mc-ae
Member Link : ae4
Current State Machine's State: mcae active state
Configuration Error Status : No Error
Local Status : active
Local State : up
Peer Status : active
Peer State : up
Logical Interface : ae4.3000
Topology Type : bridge
Local State : up
Peer State : up
Peer Ip/MCP/State : 172.16.10.2 ae1.3000 up
3. Verify the MC-LAG status between AGG1 and AGG2.
user@agg1> show iccp
Redundancy Group Information for peer 172.16.10.2
TCP Connection : Established
Liveliness Detection : Up
Backup liveness peer status: Up
Redundancy Group ID Status
1 Up
Client Application: lacpd
Redundancy Group IDs Joined: 1

498
Client Application: l2ald_iccpd_client
Redundancy Group IDs Joined: 1
4. Verify the LACP status on the aggregated Ethernet interface.
user@agg1> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae4
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/50:0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/50:0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/50:1 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/50:1 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/50:0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-0/0/50:1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
5. Verify the local and remote VTEP interfaces for the Static VXLAN is operational.
user@agg1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point source
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.1.4 lo0.0 0
L2-RTT Bridge Domain VNID Translation-VNID MC-Group-
IP Interface
default-switch SP-VLAN-3000 103000
0.0.0.0 vtep.32768
user@agg1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.1.4 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-
IP Flags
192.168.1.5 default-switch 825 vtep.32769 1784 RNVE
VNID MC-Group-IP
103000 0.0.0.0

499
Verify Q-in-Q Tunnels on the TOR Devices
This section shows how you verify the operation of VLANs on one of the TOR Device. All commands are
issued on TOR1
1. Display the VLAN information.
user@tor1> show vlans
default-switch SP-VLAN-3000 NA
ae1.3000*
ae4.3000*
ae7.3000*
ae8.3000*
2. Verify the operational status of the multichassis aggregated Ethernet link.
user@tor1> show interfaces mc-ae
Member Link : ae4
Current State Machine's State: mcae active state
Configuration Error Status : No Error
Local Status : active
Local State : up
Peer Status : active
Peer State : up
Logical Interface : ae4.3000
Topology Type : bridge
Local State : up
Peer State : up
Peer Ip/MCP/State : 172.16.20.2 ae1.3000 up
Member Link : ae7
Current State Machine's State: mcae active state
Configuration Error Status : No Error
Local Status : active
Peer State : up
Logical Interface : ae7.3000
Topology Type : bridge
Local State : up
Peer State : up
Peer Ip/MCP/State : 172.16.20.2 ae1.3000 up

500
Member Link : ae8
Current State Machine's State: mcae active state
Configuration Error Status : No Error
Local Status : active
Local State : up
Peer Status : active
Peer State : up
Logical Interface : ae8.3000
Topology Type : bridge
Local State : up
Peer State : up
Peer Ip/MCP/State : 172.16.20.1 ae1.3000 up
3. Verify the LACP status on the aggregated Ethernet interface.
user@tor1> show lacp interfaces
Aggregated interface: ae4
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/1:0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/1:0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/1:1 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/1:1 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/1:0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
xe-0/0/1:1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae7
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/2:1 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/2:1 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/2:1 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
Aggregated interface: ae8
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/2:3 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/2:3 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/2:3 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing

501
4. Verify the MC-LAG status between TOR1 and TOR2.
user@tor1> show iccp
Redundancy Group Information for peer 172.16.20.2
TCP Connection : Established
Liveliness Detection : Up
Backup liveness peer status: Up
Redundancy Group ID Status
1 Up
Client Application: l2ald_iccpd_client
Redundancy Group IDs Joined: 1
Client Application: lacpd
Redundancy Group IDs Joined: 1
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
Configure L2PT over VXLAN on EVPN-VXLAN Overview | 501
bridged overlay (BO) network leaf devices to
Topology | 502
transparently forward L2 protocol traffic over the
How L2PT over VXLAN Works | 503
VXLAN tunnels in the network.
Before You Begin | 504
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels on Leaf
Device Access Interfaces | 505
Overview
When you enable L2PT over VXLAN on an access interface for a Layer 2 (L2) protocol, the leaf device
doesn't process Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDUs) coming in on the interface for that protocol. The
local device simply encapsulates the protocol BPDUs and floods the packets in the broadcast domain

502
(VLAN) on the corresponding VXLAN tunnels to the remote VXLAN tunnel endpoints (VTEPs) in the
network. The remote VTEP leaf devices de-encapsulate the protocol traffic and forward the traffic to the
receiving hosts in the VLAN.
Topology
In this example, we have an EVPN-VXLAN bridged overlay fabric with VXLAN tunnels configured
between all of the leaf devices. See Figure 87 on page 502.
• Host B on VLAN-1 is the source for the protocol control traffic that should pass transparently to
other hosts in VLAN-1 through the EVPN-VXLAN BO network using L2PT over VXLAN.
• Host B is behind customer edge (CE) device TOR 1.
• TOR 1 is multihomed to Leaf 1 and Leaf 2, so TOR 1 will load-balance (LB) the incoming traffic
between those two leaf devices.
• On Leaf 1 and Leaf 2, we use aggregated Ethernet interface ae5 as the access interface toward TOR
1 and Host B on which we enable L2PT over VXLAN.
Figure 87: L2PT Over VXLAN Tunnels Topology

503
How L2PT over VXLAN Works
Figure 87 on page 502 shows L2PT over VXLAN in action as follows:
1. When protocol control traffic from Host B on VLAN-1 arrives at TOR 1, TOR 1 load-balances the
traffic between Leaf 1 and Leaf 2. In this case, TOR 1 sends the traffic to the access-side interface on
Leaf 2 that has L2PT over VXLAN enabled (ae5).
2. Leaf 2 doesn't process the protocol control traffic, but encapsulates it and transparently floods it to
all the VXLAN tunnels on VLAN-1 toward its neighboring leaf devices (Leaf 1, Leaf 3, and Leaf 4).
3. The destination leaf devices de-encapsulate the protocol traffic and forward the traffic toward their
hosts on VLAN-1 (Host A and Host E). The leaf devices don't forward the de-encapsulated traffic
toward the hosts on VLAN-2 (Host C and Host D).
For multihomed destinations, the multihoming peer leaf device that is the designated forwarder (DF)
for the Ethernet segment (ES) forwards the traffic toward the destination host. In this case, on Leaf 4,
ae4 is the DF for multihomed TOR 3. so Leaf 4 forwards the traffic toward Host E on VLAN-1. Leaf 3
receives the flooded traffic from the VXLAN tunnel on VLAN-1, but because it isn't the DF for TOR
3, it doesn't forward the de-encapsulated traffic toward TOR 3 and Host E.
We show enabling L2PT over VXLAN on the access-side interfaces of the leaf devices that are
connected to the protocol traffic source, Leaf 1 and Leaf 2. If the destination hosts need to transparently
return protocol traffic, you must enable L2PT over VXLAN on the access interfaces of the leaf devices
that are connected to those hosts as well.
The ingress leaf device broadcasts tagged packets for the configured protocols to each VXLAN tunnel on
the incoming packet’s VLAN, in this case, VLAN-1. If the incoming protocol BPDU is untagged, the
device uses the native VLAN to flood the traffic to the VTEP interfaces on the device. As a result, you
must configure a native VLAN ID for this feature to also work for untagged traffic.
Keep the following items in mind when you plan to use L2PT over VXLAN, which you configure using
statements at the [edit protocols layer2-control l2pt interface] hierarchy level:
• You can't configure an interface to process protocol traffic and also transparently forward traffic over
VXLAN tunnels for the same protocol. For example, you can't configure the device to process control
BPDUs coming in on interface xe-0/0/1 for a protocol such as Link Layer Discovery Protocol (LLDP):
set protocols lldp interface xe-0/0/1

504
And also configure the device to transparently forward LLDP control BPDUs over the VXLAN tunnels
when those BPDUs come in on the same interface:
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface xe-0/0/1 destination vxlan-tunnel
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface xe-0/0/1 protocol lldp
• You can't configure the regular L2PT MAC rewrite feature (see mac-rewrite) and the L2PT over
VXLAN feature on the same interface. For example, for LLDP control BPDUs coming in on interface
xe-0/0/1, you can't configure:
set protocols layer2-control mac-rewrite interface xe-0/0/1 protocols lldp
and also configure L2PT over VXLAN for LLDP on the same interface:
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface xe-0/0/1 destination vxlan-tunnel
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface xe-0/0/1 protocol lldp
• The available protocol options might differ on different platforms. See Layer 2 Protocol Tunneling
over VXLAN Tunnels in EVPN-VXLAN Bridged Overlay Networks for details. For example, some
platforms transparently tunnel certain protocols by default (such as STP and other xSTP protocols).
Those platforms don’t have L2PT protocol options to explicitly configure those protocols for L2PT
over VXLAN.
• Some supported protocols share the same destination MAC address. When you enable L2PT over
VXLAN for a protocol, the device transparently forwards BPDUs for all supported protocols that have
the same destination MAC address.
• You must configure the same protocol options symmetrically on leaf devices that are multihoming
peers for the BPDU source device, because either peer device might receive the traffic from the
source.
Before You Begin
Set up the EVPN-VXLAN bridged overlay fabric with VXLAN tunnels between the leaf devices as shown
in Figure 87 on page 502. See "Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 142 for an
example.

505
Configure L2PT over VXLAN Tunnels on Leaf Device Access Interfaces
Configure the same steps on access interface ae5 on both Leaf 1 and Leaf 2.
1. Configure a native VLAN ID for untagged L2 protocol BPDUs, with interface ae5 as a member:
set interfaces ae5 native-vlan-id 1001
2. Enable L2PT over VXLAN on ae5:
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 destination vxlan-tunnel
3. Configure the protocols you want to be transparently forwarded over the VXLAN tunnels in the
fabric.
In this case we configure Multiple MAC Registration Protocol (MMRP), Multiple VLAN Registration
Protocol (MVRP), and Ethernet Local Management Interface (E-LMI) protocol using the
corresponding options. See l2pt (Destination Tunnels) for a list of the supported protocol options.
Configure each protocol you want to tunnel using individual set commands as follows:
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 protocol mmrp
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 protocol mvrp
set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 protocol elmi
You should configure the same protocol options symmetrically on leaf devices that are multihoming
peers for a protocol BPDU source, because either peer device might receive the traffic from the
source.
4. Commit the configuration:
Leaf 1:
[edit]
user@leaf1# commit
configuration check succeeds
commit complete
Leaf 2:
[edit]
user@leaf2# commit

506
configuration check succeeds
commit complete
NOTE: You can't configure L2PT over VXLAN for a protocol on an interface that already
has the same protocol configured for the interface.
For example, if you already configured interface ae5 for LLDP and you try to commit an
L2PT over VXLAN configuration for LLDP on ae5, the commit fails with an error
message such as the following:
user@leaf1# set protocols layer2-control l2pt interface ae5 protocol lldp
[edit]
user@leaf1# commit
error: L2 protocol tunneling configuration disallowed on interface ae5 as lldp is
configured
error: configuration check-out failed
5. Check the configuration for L2PT over VXLAN on the ae5 interface on Leaf 1 and Leaf 2:
Leaf 1:
user@leaf1# show protocols layer2-control l2pt
interface ae5 {
protocol {
elmi;
mmrp;
mvrp;
}
destination {
vxlan-tunnel;
}
}
Leaf 2:
user@leaf2# show protocols layer2-control l2pt
interface ae5 {
protocol {
elmi;
mmrp;

507
mvrp;
}
destination {
vxlan-tunnel;
}
}
6. Use the show l2pt interface CLI command to verify the interfaces and protocols for which L2PT over
VXLAN tunnels is enabled, as follows:
Leaf 1:
user@leaf1> show l2pt interface
Interface Destination Protocols
ae5 VXLAN-TUNNEL ELMI MMRP MVRP
Leaf 2:
user@leaf2> show l2pt interface
Interface Destination Protocols
ae5 VXLAN-TUNNEL ELMI MMRP MVRP
Use host-specific monitoring tools to validate that the protocol BPDUs the source host sends are
being transparently received by the remote host devices across the VXLAN tunnels.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
l2pt (Destination Tunnels)
show l2pt interface
Bridged Overlay Design and Implementation | 142
Layer 2 Protocol Tunneling over VXLAN Tunnels in EVPN-VXLAN Bridged Overlay Networks

508
Service Chaining Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Service Chaining | 508
Service Chaining with Multicast | 515
Service Chaining— Release History | 523
For an overview of service chaining, see the Service Chaining section in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint
Architecture Components" on page 9.
The following sections show how to implement service chaining and service chaining of multicast in a
EVPN VXLAN network.
Service Chaining
IN THIS SECTION
Service Chaining Design | 508
Configuring Service Chaining | 509
Verifying Service Chaining | 512
Service Chaining Design
Figure 88 on page 509 shows a logical view of the service chaining configuration. It shows the
configuration of one spine with a left and right side VRF configuration. The SRX Series router is the PNF,
and is performing the Service chaining.

509
Figure 88: Service Chaining Logical View
The flow of traffic for the spine:
1. Traffic from the leaf tenants enters tenant VRF-151, and is destined to a network attached to tenant
VRF-152.
2. Because there is no route from VRF-151 to VRF-152, a default route lookup is performed using
routes received from the PNF.
3. After it receives the default route from the PNF, VRF-151 routes traffic toward the PNF via
IRB.4088.
4. Traffic reaches the PNF, and the PNF performs the service chaining. Traffic is forwarded out ae26.1
using routes received from EBGP.
5. Traffic now reaches tenant VRF-152, and follows regular route lookup and forwarding action towards
the leaf tenants.
Configuring Service Chaining
This section shows how to configure the spine for service chaining as shown in Figure 88 on page 509.
This configuration is based on the "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on
page 172 configuration.
1. Configure the ESI connection towards the PNF.
set interfaces xe-0/0/67:0 gigether-options 802.3ad ae26
set interfaces ae26 esi 00:88:88:88:88:88:88:88:88:88
set interfaces ae26 esi all-active
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp active

510
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:00:22
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
2. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-151 towards the PNF.
set interfaces irb unit 4088 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet address 10.88.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet address 10.88.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.88.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:58:0:242/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:58:0:242/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:58:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 4088 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4088
set vlans 4088 vlan-id 4088
set vlans 4088 l3-interface irb.4088
set vlans 4088 vxlan vni 104088
3. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-152 towards the PNF.
set interfaces irb unit 4089 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet address 10.89.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet address 10.89.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.89.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:59:0:242/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:59:0:242/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:59:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 4089 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4089
set vlans 4089 vlan-id 4089
set vlans 4089 l3-interface irb.4089
set vlans 4089 vxlan vni 104089
4. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PNF.
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF term 10 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF term 10 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF term 20 from protocol bgp

511
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF term 20 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF term 30 then reject
5. Configure the VRF-151 routing instance.
set routing-instances VRF-151 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.601
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.602
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.603
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.604
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface lo0.151
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.4088
set routing-instances VRF-151 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.2:151
set routing-instances VRF-151 vrf-target target:100:151
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx type external
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.88.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.88.0.1 peer-as 4000000001
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:58:0:1 family
inet6 unicast
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:58:0:1 peer-as
4000000001
6. Configure the VRF-152 routing instance.
set routing-instances VRF-152 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.605
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.606
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.607
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.608
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface lo0.152
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.4089
set routing-instances VRF-152 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.2:152
set routing-instances VRF-152 vrf-target target:100:152
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx type external
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PNF
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.89.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.89.0.1 peer-as 4000000001

512
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:59:0:1 family
inet6 unicast
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:59:0:1 peer-as
4000000001
7. Repeat this procedure for every spine in your topology.
Verifying Service Chaining
To verify that service chaining is working:
1. On the spine, display the local routes in VRF-152.
host@SPINE-2> show route table VRF-152.inet.0 protocol direct
VRF-152.inet.0: 61 destinations, 62 routes (61 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.2.93.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:29
> via irb.605
10.2.94.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:29
> via irb.606
10.2.95.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:29
> via irb.607
10.2.96.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:29
> via irb.608
10.87.0.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:37
> via irb.4087
10.89.0.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:37
> via irb.4089
2. On the spine, display the local routes in VRF-151.
host@SPINE2> show route table VRF-151.inet.0 protocol direct
VRF-151.inet.0: 63 destinations, 64 routes (63 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.2.89.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:36
> via irb.601
10.2.90.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:36
> via irb.602
10.2.91.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:36

513
> via irb.603
10.2.92.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:36
> via irb.604
10.86.0.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:44
> via irb.4086
10.88.0.0/24 *[Direct/0] 1d 15:30:44
> via irb.4088
3. On the spine, check that a route lookup for VRF-151 points to the default route received from PNF.
host@SPINE2> show route table VRF-151.inet.0 10.2.93.0
VRF-151.inet.0: 63 destinations, 64 routes (63 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
0.0.0.0/0 *[BGP/170] 1d 15:33:08, localpref 100
AS path: 4000000001 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 10.88.0.1 via irb.4088
4. On the PNF device, check the route lookup toward the tenant VRF-152 destination.
host@PNF> show route 10.2.93.0
inet.0: 20 destinations, 52 routes (20 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
10.2.93.0/24 *[BGP/170] 2d 00:39:44, localpref 100
AS path: 4200000002 I, validation-state: unverified
> to 10.89.0.242 via ae26.1
5. On the PNF device, check that it is advertising only default routes to the EBGP peer on tenant
VRF-152.
host@PNF> show route advertising-protocol bgp 10.89.0.242
inet.0: 20 destinations, 52 routes (20 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 0.0.0.0/0 Self I

514
6. On the PNF device, check that it is advertising only default routes to the EBGP peer on tenant
VRF-151.
host@PNF> show route advertising-protocol bgp 10.88.0.242
inet.0: 20 destinations, 52 routes (20 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 0.0.0.0/0 Self I
7. On the spine, verify that the spine is advertising local VRF-152 routes to the PNF.
host@SPINE2> show route advertising-protocol bgp 10.89.0.1
VRF-152.inet.0: 52 destinations, 53 routes (52 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 10.2.93.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.94.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.95.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.96.0/24 Self I
* 10.87.0.0/24 Self I
* 10.89.0.0/24 Self I
* 192.68.152.1/32 Self 4100000000 I
8. On the spine, verify that the spine is advertising local VRF-151 routes to the PNF.
host@SPINE2> show route advertising-protocol bgp 10.88.0.1
VRF-151.inet.0: 53 destinations, 54 routes (53 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
Prefix Nexthop MED Lclpref AS path
* 10.2.89.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.90.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.91.0/24 Self I
* 10.2.92.0/24 Self I
* 10.86.0.0/24 Self I
* 10.88.0.0/24 Self I
* 192.68.151.1/32 Self 4100000000 I

515
Service Chaining with Multicast
IN THIS SECTION
Service Chaining with Multicast Design | 515
Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast | 516
Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast | 521
Service Chaining with Multicast Design
Figure 89 on page 515 shows the logical view of the service chaining configuration. The VRF routing
instances and IRB interfaces are all configured on the same spine.
In this design, we are performing service chaining with an SRX Series router as the PNF and with a PIM
gateway.
Figure 89: Service Chaining Logical View
The flow of traffic for Spine 2 when multicast receivers start sending IGMP reports:
1. The leaf devices snoop the IGMP report and advertise EVPN Type 6 routes to the spines to notify
the spines of the interested Multicast receiver.
2. The spine receives the EVPN Type 6 routes based on the VNI mapping, and creates a PIM join (*.G)
entry in VRF-152.

516
The spine configuration includes the address of the RP on the PIM gateway. However, on the
VRF-152 routing instance, there is only a default route toward the RP via the PNF.
3. The PIM designated router (DR) on the receiver side IRBs (irb.605, irb.606 irb.607, irb.608) sends a
PIM join (*.G ) towards the PNF device on irb.4089.
4. The PNF device, creates a PIM (*.G) entry with ae26.1 as the outgoing interface.
The PNF is configured with the RP.
On the PNF, the RP is also configured on the PNF and the lookup to the PIM RP points toward
interface ae26.0 -> interface towards VRF-151 on spines
5. The PIM join arrives on VRF-151 on irb.4088 and creates a PIM ( *,G ) state with irb.4088 as the
outgoing interface and lookup towards the RP points to irb.4086.
6. The Spine sends the PIM join entry on irb.4086 towards the PIM gateway.
7. The PIM gateway receives the PIM (*,G ) join on ae10.2.
The flow of traffic for Spine 2 when the multicast source on VRF-151 starts sending packets:
1. VRF-151 creates a PIM (*,G ) entry with irb.4088 as the outgoing interface and also the RP reachable
via irb.4086.
2. Spine 2 sends two packets—one toward the PNF on irb.4088 and one toward the PIM gateway on
irb.4086.
When the PNF receives the packet:
a. The PNF forwards it based on the PIM ( *.G ) entry it created with outgoing interface ae26.1
b. Multicast traffic arrives on irb.4089 in VRF-512 and is forwarded to the receivers on the leafs.
When the PIM gateway receives the packet, it forwards the packet based on its (*,G) PIM entry with
the outgoing interface as ae10.2.
3. When traffic arrives at irb.4086 from the PIM gateway on Spine 2, Spine 2 prunes the RPT/shared
tree.
Configuring Service Chaining With Multicast
This section shows how to configure the spine for service chaining as shown in Figure 89 on page 515.
1. Configure the ESI connection towards the PNF.
set interfaces xe-0/0/67:0 gigether-options 802.3ad ae26
set interfaces ae26 esi 00:88:88:88:88:88:88:88:88:88

517
set interfaces ae26 esi all-active
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae26 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:00:22
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
2. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-151 towards the PNF.
set interfaces irb unit 4088 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet address 10.88.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet address 10.88.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.88.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet6 address 2001:db8::40:58:0:242/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4088 family inet6 address 2001:db8::40:58:0:242/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::40:58:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 4088 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4088
set vlans 4088 vlan-id 4088
set vlans 4088 l3-interface irb.4088
set vlans 4088 vxlan vni 104088
3. Configure the Layer 3 connection for VRF-152 towards the PNF.
set interfaces irb unit 4089 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 4089 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet address 10.89.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet address 10.89.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.89.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:59:0:242/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4089 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:59:0:242/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:59:0:254
set interfaces irb unit 4089 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae26 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4089
set vlans 4089 vlan-id 4089
set vlans 4089 l3-interface irb.4089
set vlans 4089 vxlan vni 104089
4. Configure the ESI connection towards the PIM gateway.
set interfaces xe-0/0/67:1 gigether-options 802.3ad ae15
set interfaces ae15 esi 00:22:22:22:22:22:22:22:22:22

518
set interfaces ae15 esi all-active
set interfaces ae15 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae15 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae15 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:00:00:22
set interfaces ae15 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
5. Configure the Layer 3 link for VRF-151 towards PIM gateway.
set interfaces irb unit 4086 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 4086 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4086 family inet address 10.86.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4086 family inet address 10.86.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.86.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4086 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae15 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4086
set vlans 4086 vlan-id 4086
set vlans 4086 l3-interface irb.4086
set vlans 4086 vxlan vni 104086
6. Configure the Layer 3 link for VRF-152 towards the PIM gateway.
set interfaces irb unit 4087 proxy-macip-advertisement
set interfaces irb unit 4087 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4087 family inet address 10.87.0.242/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4087 family inet address 10.87.0.242/24 virtual-gateway-address
10.87.0.254
set interfaces irb unit 4087 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces ae15 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members 4087
set vlans 4087 vlan-id 4087
set vlans 4087 l3-interface irb.4087
set vlans 4087 vxlan vni 104087
7. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PNF.
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX term 10 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX term 10 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX term 20 from protocol bgp
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX term 20 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX term 30 then reject

519
8. Configure a policy to export local routes from VRF-151 and VRF-152 to the PIM gateway.
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PIM term 10 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PIM term 10 then accept
set policy-options policy-statement DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PIM term 20 then reject
9. Configure a routing instance for VRF 151.
set routing-instances VRF-151 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.601
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.602
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.603
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.604
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface lo0.151
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.4088
set routing-instances VRF-151 interface irb.4086
set routing-instances VRF-151 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.2:151
set routing-instances VRF-151 vrf-target target:100:151
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx type external
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.88.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.88.0.1 peer-as
4000000001
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::40:58:0:1
family inet6 unicast
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::40:58:0:1 peer-
as 4000000001
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-pim type external
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-pim export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PIM
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-pim local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-pim neighbor 10.86.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols bgp group to-pim neighbor 10.86.0.1 peer-as
4100000000
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim rp static address 192.68.151.1 group-ranges
225.0.4.0/24
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim rp static address 192.68.152.1 group-ranges
225.0.5.0/24
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.601 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.601 mode sparse-dense

520
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.602 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.602 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.604 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.604 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.603 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.603 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.4086 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.4086 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.4088 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-151 protocols pim interface irb.4088 mode sparse-dense
10. Configure a routing instance for VRF 152.
set routing-instances VRF-152 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.605
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.606
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.607
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.608
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface lo0.152
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.4089
set routing-instances VRF-152 interface irb.4087
set routing-instances VRF-152 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.2:152
set routing-instances VRF-152 vrf-target target:100:152
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx type external
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-SRX
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.89.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 10.89.0.1 peer-as
4000000001
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:59:0:1
family inet6 unicast
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-srx neighbor 2001:db8::10:59:0:1 peer-
as 4000000001
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-pim type external
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-pim export DIRECT-EXPORT-TO-PIM
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-pim local-as 4200000002
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-pim neighbor 10.87.0.1 family inet
unicast
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols bgp group to-pim neighbor 10.87.0.1 peer-as
4100000000
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim rp static address 192.68.151.1 group-ranges

521
225.0.4.0/24
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim rp static address 192.68.152.1 group-ranges
225.0.5.0/24
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.605 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.605 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.606 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.606 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.607 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.607 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.608 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.608 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.4087 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.4087 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.4089 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-152 protocols pim interface irb.4089 mode sparse-dense
11. Repeat this procedure for every spine in your topology.
Verifying Service Chaining with Multicast
This section shows how to configure service chaining with Multicast. Note the following:
• The multicast source is on VRF-151 - VLAN 601
• The multicast receivers are on VRF-152 - VLAN 606
1. Display the interfaces on VRF-152 that are configured for PIM. This command shows the interfaces
that are DRs.
host@SPINE5> show pim interfaces instance VRF-152
Stat = Status, V = Version, NbrCnt = Neighbor Count,
S = Sparse, D = Dense, B = Bidirectional,
DR = Designated Router, DDR = Dual DR, DistDR = Distributed DR,
P2P = Point-to-point link, P2MP = Point-to-Multipoint,
Active = Bidirectional is active, NotCap = Not Bidirectional Capable
Name Stat Mode IP V State NbrCnt JoinCnt(sg/*g) DR address
irb.4087 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 4 0/0 10.87.0.245
irb.4089 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 4 50/50 10.89.0.245
irb.605 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.2.93.245
irb.606 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.2.94.245
irb.607 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.2.95.245
irb.608 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.2.96.245
pime.32780 Up S 4 2 P2P,NotCap 0 0/0

522
pime.32781 Up S 4 2 P2P,NotCap 0 0/0
2. Display PIM groups on the Upstream interface towards RP and Source are pointing to irb.4089 –
towards the PNF
host@SPINE5> show pim join extensive instance VRF-152 225.0.4.1
Instance: PIM.VRF-152 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 225.0.4.1
Source: *
RP: 192.68.151.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: irb.4089
Upstream neighbor: 10.89.0.1
Upstream state: Join to RP
Uptime: 00:14:30
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.606
10.2.94.245 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:14:30 Time since last Join: 00:14:30
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
Group: 225.0.4.1
Source: 10.2.89.5
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.4089
Upstream neighbor: 10.89.0.1
Upstream state: Join to Source, No Prune to RP
Keepalive timeout: 317
Uptime: 00:13:51
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.606
10.2.94.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:13:51 Time since last Join: 00:13:51
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1

523
Service Chaining— Release History
Table 16 on page 523 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within
this reference design.
Table 16: Service Chaining Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train support all features documented in this section.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
Multicast IGMP Snooping and PIM Design and
Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring IGMP Snooping | 524
Verifying IGMP Snooping | 525
Configuring PIM | 527
Verifying PIM | 528
Multicast — Feature Summary | 531
Use this design to configure Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and Protocol Independent
Multicast (PIM) in your fabric to improve multicast replication. IGMP snooping preserves bandwidth

524
because multicast traffic is forwarded only on interfaces where there are IGMP listeners. For instance,
every leaf device does not need to receive every instance of multicast traffic.
For an overview of multicast, see "Multicast Optimizations" on page 35.
In this design, we are using an external PIM gateway, which extends multicast beyond the data center,
and is useful in DCI implementations.
The next sections show how to configure and verify multicast.
Configuring IGMP Snooping
In this design, we are using IGMP snooping to constrain multicast traffic in a broadcast domain to
interested receivers and multicast devices.
To configure IGMP snooping:

525
Configure IGMP snooping on all VXLAN enabled VLANs on the leafs. The current implementation does
not support IGMP snooping on selected VXLAN enabled VLANs.
set protocols igmp-snooping vlan BD-3 proxy
set vlans BD-3 vlan-id 3
set vlans BD-3 vxlan vni 100003
Verifying IGMP Snooping
Enter the following CLI commands to verify IGMP snooping:
1. Verify the local IGMP snooping state on the leaf.
user@leaf-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan BD-3
Instance: default-switch
Vlan: BD-3
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae11.0, Groups: 2
Group: 225.0.1.1
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.0.3.7
Group timeout: 215 Type: Dynamic
Group: 225.0.1.2
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.0.3.7
Group timeout: 207 Type: Dynamic
user@leaf-2> show evpn igmp-snooping database l2-domain-id 100003
Instance: default-switch
VN Identifier: 100003
Group IP: 225.0.1.1, Source IP: 0.0.0.0, Access OIF Count: 1
Group IP: 225.0.1.2, Source IP: 0.0.0.0, Access OIF Count: 1

526
2. Verify that the leaf is advertising the EVPN Type 7 route where IGMP is snooped.
user@leaf-2> show route table __default_evpn__.evpn.0 match-prefix 7:*100003*225.0.1.[12]*
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 215 destinations, 318 routes (215 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
7:192.168.1.4:10::99080706050403::100003::225.0.1.1::192.168.1.4/600
*[EVPN/170] 04:55:32
Indirect
7:192.168.1.4:10::99080706050403::100003::225.0.1.2::192.168.1.4/600
*[EVPN/170] 04:55:30
Indirect
3. Verify that the leaf and its multihomed ESI peer device are both advertising the EVPN Type 6 route
for the multicast group.
user@leaf-2> show route table default-switch.evpn.0 match-prefix 6:*100003*225.0.1.[12]*
default-switch.evpn.0: 100334 destinations, 198153 routes (100334 active, 0 holddown, 0
hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both
6:192.168.1.3:10::100003::225.0.1.1::192.168.1.3/520
*[BGP/170] 04:55:09, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.4.1 via ae1.0
to 172.16.4.3 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 04:55:11, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.4.1 via ae1.0
to 172.16.4.3 via ae2.0
6:192.168.1.3:10::100003::225.0.1.2::192.168.1.3/520
*[BGP/170] 04:55:07, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.4.1 via ae1.0
to 172.16.4.3 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 04:55:10, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.4.1 via ae1.0
to 172.16.4.3 via ae2.0
6:192.168.1.4:10::100003::225.0.1.1::192.168.1.4/520
*[EVPN/170] 04:56:16

527
Indirect
6:192.168.1.4:10::100003::225.0.1.2::192.168.1.4/520
*[EVPN/170] 04:56:14
Indirect
Configuring PIM
To configure PIM:
1. To configure inter-VNI multicast routing at the spine, create a routing instance for a tenant (a leaf
device) named VRF-1. Configure the following in the routing instance:
• Add the IRB interfaces to the leaf devices.
• Enable PIM and configure the local address for this spine as the rendezvous point (RP).
• Enable PIM on the IRB interfaces.
Spine 1:
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.10
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.2:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim rp local address 10.0.1.242
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 mode sparse-dense
2. Configure multicast routing on another spine. Configure a corresponding VRF routing instance for
the same tenant as in step 6.
• Add the IRB interfaces toward the leaf devices.

528
• Enable PIM and configure the RP address on spine 1 as the static RP.
• Enable PIM on the IRB interfaces.
Spine 2:
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.10
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.3:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim rp static address 10.0.1.242
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 mode sparse-dense
Verifying PIM
Enter the following commands to verify PIM:
1. On spine 1, check the PIM control plane on the RP, and verify that:
• PIM joins are created from Type 6 routes that are generated by leaf devices.
• IGMP reports are coming from non-IGMP snooping capable leaf devices.
user@spine-1> show pim join instance VRF-1 225.0.1.0/30 extensive
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 225.0.1.1
Source: *
RP: 10.0.1.242

529
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 15:18:24
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 15:17:51 Time since last Join: 15:17:51
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 14:51:29 Time since last Join: 14:51:29
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 05:31:09 Time since last Join: 05:31:09
10.0.1.245 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: 199
Uptime: 15:17:28 Time since last Join: 00:00:11
Number of downstream interfaces: 3
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
Group: 225.0.1.2
Source: *
RP: 10.0.1.242
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 15:18:24
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 15:17:51 Time since last Join: 15:17:51
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 14:51:29 Time since last Join: 14:51:29
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 05:31:09 Time since last Join: 05:31:09
10.0.1.245 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: 199
Uptime: 15:17:28 Time since last Join: 00:00:11
Number of downstream interfaces: 3
Number of downstream neighbors: 4

530
2. On the spine that is configured as the PIM DR, verify the multicast forwarding state from the spine to
the tenant VRF. To do so:
a. Enter show pim interfaces instance on all spines, and check the State column to see which IRB
interface is a DR.
user@spine-1> show pim interfaces instance VRF-1
Stat = Status, V = Version, NbrCnt = Neighbor Count,
S = Sparse, D = Dense, B = Bidirectional,
DR = Designated Router, DDR = Dual DR, DistDR = Distributed DR,
P2P = Point-to-point link, P2MP = Point-to-Multipoint,
Active = Bidirectional is active, NotCap = Not Bidirectional Capable
Name Stat Mode IP V State NbrCnt JoinCnt(sg/*g) DR address
irb.1 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 2/100 10.0.1.245
irb.2 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.0.2.245
irb.3 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 0/0 10.0.3.245
irb.4 Up SD 4 2 DR,NotCap 3 98/0 10.0.4.245
pime.32769 Up S 4 2 P2P,NotCap 0 0/0
irb.1 Up SD 6 2 DR,NotCap 2 0/0 fe80:db8:10:0:1::254
irb.2 Up SD 6 2 DR,NotCap 2 0/0 fe80:db8:10:0:2::254
irb.3 Up SD 6 2 DR,NotCap 2 0/0 fe80:db8:10:0:3::254
irb.4 Up SD 6 2 DR,NotCap 2 0/0 fe80:db8:10:0:4::254
b. On the PIM DR, display the multicast forwarding state.
user@spine-2> show multicast route extensive instance VRF-1 group 225.0.1.0/30
Instance: VRF-1 Family: INET
Group: 225.0.1.1
Source: 10.0.1.5/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.3 irb.2
Number of outgoing interfaces: 3
Session description: Unknown
Statistics: 69 kBps, 559 pps, 309165 packets
Next-hop ID: 2109194
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding

531
Cache lifetime/timeout: 360 seconds
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 0
Uptime: 00:09:13
Group: 225.0.1.2
Source: 10.0.1.5/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.3 irb.2
Number of outgoing interfaces: 3
Session description: Unknown
Statistics: 68 kBps, 554 pps, 307024 packets
Next-hop ID: 2109194
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: 360 seconds
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 0
Uptime: 00:09:13
Multicast — Feature Summary
Table 17 on page 531 provides a history of the features described in this section and their support
within this reference design.
Table 17: Multicast Feature Summary
Hardware IGMPv2 EVPN Type 6 Inter-VNI PIM to External
Snooping SMET Routes Multicast with PIM Rendezvous Point
Gateway (From Border)
QFX51001 Not supported Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5110-32Q, 18.1R3-S3 18.4R2 Not supported Not supported
QFX5110-48S
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2 18.4R2 Not supported Not supported

532
Table 17: Multicast Feature Summary (Continued)
Hardware IGMPv2 EVPN Type 6 Inter-VNI PIM to External
Snooping SMET Routes Multicast with PIM Rendezvous Point
Gateway (From Border)
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2 19.1R2 Not supported Not supported
QFX5200-32C1, Not supported Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5200-48Y1
QFX10002-36Q/72Q, 18.1R3-S3 18.4R2 18.1R3-S3 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008, QFX10016
QFX10002-60C2 20.2R2 20.2R2 20.2R2 20.2R2
MX204; MX240, MX480, Not supported Not supported Not supported Not supported
MX960 with MPC7E;
MX10003;
1Make sure that IGMP snooping is not enabled on these QFX switches. If IGMP snooping is
inadvertently enabled, these switches might process EVPN Type 6 routes that are reflected to them.
2The QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q
switches.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Overview of Multicast Forwarding with IGMP Snooping or MLD Snooping in an EVPN-VXLAN
Environment
Multicast Support in EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Networks

533
Multicast Optimization Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring the Server Leaf | 535
Configuring the Spine | 535
Configuring the Border Leaf | 537
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf | 540
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine | 542
Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design— Feature Summary | 545
Juniper Networks supports the multicast optimization features discussed in this section in both
centrally-routed bridging (CRB) and edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlays.
This design assumes that an EVPN-VXLAN ERB overlay is already running for IPv4 unicast traffic. (See
"Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and Implementation" on page 236 for information about
configuring edge-routed bridging.) However, the multicast optimization features uses a centrally routed
approach.
NOTE: Starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 22.2R2, we recommend
deploying the optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) solution for ERB overlay unicast
EVPN-VXLAN networks that include multicast traffic. OISM combines the best aspects
of ERB and CRB overlay designs together to provide the most efficient multicast traffic
flow in ERB overlay fabrics.
We describe the OISM configuration that we validated in our ERB overlay reference
architecture here:
• "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-
Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546
This section shows how to add centrally-routed multicast optimizations to the edge-routed bridging
topology shown in Figure 90 on page 534.

534
Figure 90: Topology for Multicast Optimizations in an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
Multicast is configured as follows:
• Server leaf devices are set up in AR leaf role and for IGMP snooping.
• Spine devices are set up in AR replicator role.
• Border leaf devices are set up for multicast routing.
NOTE: If your multicast environment requires assisted replication to handle large
multicast flows and multicast routing, we recommend any of the QFX10000 line of
switches for the border leaf and border spine roles. However, note that the
QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the
QFX10002-36Q/72Q switches. Also, we do not recommend any of the MX Series

535
routers included in this reference design as a border leaf in a multicast environment with
large multicast flows.
For an overview of multicast optimizations, see the Multicast Optimization section in "Data Center
Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
The following sections show how to configure and verify multicast assisted replication:
Configuring the Server Leaf
We are configuring AR and IGMP snooping on the server leaf. When IGMP snooping is enabled on a
device, SMET is also enabled on the device by default.
1. Enable IGMP snooping.
set protocols igmp-snooping vlan BD-1
set protocols igmp-snooping vlan BD-2
set protocols igmp-snooping vlan BD-3
set protocols igmp-snooping vlan BD-4
2. Enable AR in the leaf role. This causes the server leaf to only forward one copy of multicast traffic to
the spine, which then performs replication of the multicast traffic.
The replicator-activation-delay is the time, in seconds, the leaf waits before sending the replication to
the AR replicator after receiving the AR replicator route from the replicator.
set protocols evpn assisted-replication leaf replicator-activation-delay 10
Configuring the Spine
We are configuring the spine as AR replicator device.

536
1. Configure IP addressing for the loopback interfaces. One address is used for the AR replicator role
(192.168.102.2). The other address (192.168.2.2) is used for the VTEP tunnel.
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.2/32 preferred
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.102.2/32
2. Configure the spine to act as the AR replicator device.
set protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator inet 192.168.102.2
set protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator vxlan-encapsulation-source-ip ingress-
replication-ip
3. Configure the loopback interface that is used in the VRF routing instance.
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet
4. Configure a VRF routing instance.
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.2.2:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
5. Configure VLANs to the border leaf.
set vlans BD-1 vlan-id 1
set vlans BD-1 vxlan vni 100001
set vlans BD-2 vlan-id 2
set vlans BD-2 vxlan vni 100002
set vlans BD-3 vlan-id 3
set vlans BD-3 vxlan vni 100003
set vlans BD-4 vlan-id 4
set vlans BD-4 vxlan vni 100004
6. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation.
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all

537
7. Configure the switch options, and specify that the loopback interface is the VTEP source interface.
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
Configuring the Border Leaf
This section describes how to set up multicast routing on the border leafs.
NOTE: We do not configure AR on the border leafs. In this network design, the two
border leafs share a multihomed ESI, and one of the border leaf devices supports AR but
the other does not. In this situation, we do not recommend configuring AR on the border
leaf that supports this feature. However, if your network includes two border leafs that
share a multihomed ESI, and both border leaf devices support AR, we support the
configuration of AR on both border leafs.
1. Configure VLANs
set vlans BD-1 vlan-id 1
set vlans BD-1 l3-interface irb.1
set vlans BD-1 vxlan vni 100001
set vlans BD-2 vlan-id 2
set vlans BD-2 l3-interface irb.2
set vlans BD-2 vxlan vni 100002
set vlans BD-3 vlan-id 3
set vlans BD-3 l3-interface irb.3
set vlans BD-3 vxlan vni 100003
set vlans BD-4 vlan-id 4
set vlans BD-4 l3-interface irb.4
set vlans BD-4 vxlan vni 100004
2. Configure the EVPN protocol with VXLAN encapsulation.
set protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set protocols evpn extended-vni-list all

538
NOTE: On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, also include the host-profile unified
forwarding profile option to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2
Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
3. Configure the switch options and specify that the loopback interface is the VTEP source interface.
set switch-options vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set switch-options vrf-target target:10458:0
set switch-options vrf-target auto
4. Configure the IRBs.
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.239/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.239/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 1200
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:239/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:239/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address fe80:10:0:1::239/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:0:1::254
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.239/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet address 10.0.2.239/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.2.254
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 1200
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:239/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:2:239/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:2:254
set interfaces irb unit 2 family inet6 address fe80:10:0:2::239/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:0:2::254
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 2 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.239/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet address 10.0.3.239/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.3.254
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 1200

539
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:239/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:3:239/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:3:254
set interfaces irb unit 3 family inet6 address fe80:10:0:3::239/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:0:3::254
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 3 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.239/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet address 10.0.4.239/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.4.254
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 nd6-stale-time 1200
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:239/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:4:239/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:4:254
set interfaces irb unit 4 family inet6 address fe80:10:0:4::239/64 virtual-gateway-address
fe80:10:0:4::254
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 4 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
5. Configure a VRF routing instance.
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.186.0.1:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
6. Configure PIM for multicast routing at the border leaf devices.
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim rp local address 10.0.1.239
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 mode sparse-dense
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 family inet
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 mode sparse-dense

540
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Server Leaf
The server leaf is in the role of AR leaf device. This means that it does not perform ingress replication.
Instead, it forwards one copy of multicast traffic to the spine, which is configured as the AR replicator
device.
1. Verify that the spines are in the role of Assisted Replicator and are receiving Type 3 routes. Address
192.168.102.1 is Spine 1, and address 192.168.102.2 is Spine 2.
user@server-leaf> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 3:*100001*192.168.102.* extensive
| match "3:192.168.2|ASSISTED-REPLICATION"
3:192.168.2.1:10000::100001::192.168.102.1/248 IM (2 entries, 0 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.1 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.1 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
3:192.168.2.2:10000::100001::192.168.102.2/248 IM (2 entries, 0 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.2 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.2 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
user@server-leaf> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 3:*100001*192.168.102.1* extensive
bgp.evpn.0: 156388 destinations, 299429 routes (156388 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
3:192.168.2.1:10000::100001::192.168.102.1/248 IM (2 entries, 0 announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.2.1:10000
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.1 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x1a6b08f0
Next-hop reference count: 4000
Source: 192.168.2.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.102.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <Active Int Ext>
Local AS: 4210000001 Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 4:58:08 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001.192.168.2.1

541
AS path: I
Communities: target:32897:268535457 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) evpn-mcast-
flags:0x4:extended-MH-AR
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.1
Secondary Tables: default-switch.evpn.0
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.102.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 1
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.109.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.102.1/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 1
Nexthop: 172.16.109.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0
BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.2.1:10000
PMSI: Flags 0x8: Label 6250: Type ASSISTED-REPLICATION 192.168.102.1 Role AR-
REPLICATOR
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x1a6b08f0
Next-hop reference count: 4000
Source: 192.168.2.2
Protocol next hop: 192.168.102.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <NotBest Int Ex>
Inactive reason: Not Best in its group - Cluster list length
Local AS: 4210000001 Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 5:14:41 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001.192.168.2.2
AS path: I (Originator)
Cluster list: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.2.1
Communities: target:32897:268535457 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) evpn-mcast-
flags:0x4:extended-MH-AR
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.2

542
Secondary Tables: default-switch.evpn.0
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.102.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 1
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.109.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.102.1/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 1
Nexthop: 172.16.109.0 via ae3.0
Session Id: 0
2. Verify the spine that is set up as the AR device for the VLAN. 192.168.102.2 is the address of the AR
device.
user@server-leaf> show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops l2-domain-id
100001
Instance: default-switch
AR Role: AR Leaf
VN Identifier: 100001
Load Balance Nexthop Index: 134135
Load balance to:
Nexthop Index Interface AR IP
23119 vtep.32881 192.168.102.1
21753 vtep.32770 192.168.102.2 (Designated Node)
Verifying Assisted Replication on the Spine
Verify that server leaf devices 1 through 4 are AR leaf devices. (The loopback addresses of server leaf
devices 1 through 4 are 192.168.0.1, 192.168.0.2, 192.168.0.3, and 192.168.0.4, respectively.) The
border leaf devices are not set up for assisted replication.
user@spine> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 3:*100001*192.168.0.* extensive | match
"3:192.168.0.|LEAF"| except "PMSI|Path"
3:192.168.0.1:10000::100001::192.168.0.1/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.1 AR-LEAF ## Leaf 1

543
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.1 AR-LEAF
3:192.168.0.2:10::100001::192.168.0.2/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.2 AR-LEAF ## Leaf 2
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.2 AR-LEAF
3:192.168.0.3:10000::100001::192.168.0.3/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.3 AR-LEAF ## Leaf 3
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.3 AR-LEAF
3:192.168.0.4:10000::100001::192.168.0.4/248 IM (2 entries, 1 announced)
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.4 AR-LEAF ## Leaf 4
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.4 AR-LEAF
3:192.168.0.10:10000::100001::192.168.0.10/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced) ## Border Leaf 1
3:192.168.0.11:10000::100001::192.168.0.11/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced) ## Border Leaf 2
user@spine> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 3:*100001*192.168.0.1 extensive
bgp.evpn.0: 362179 destinations, 504791 routes (347873 active, 14306 holddown, 0 hidden)
3:192.168.0.1:10000::100001::192.168.0.1/248 IM (1 entry, 1 announced)
TSI:
Page 0 idx 0, (group overlay-bgp-rr type Internal) Type 1 val 0x1af46804 (adv_entry)
Advertised metrics:
Nexthop: 192.168.0.1
Localpref: 100
AS path: [4210000001] I
Communities: target:32897:268535457 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) evpn-mcast-flags:0x1:snooping-
enabled
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.1 AR-LEAF
Cluster ID: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.1
Page 0 idx 1, (group overlay-bgp type Internal) Type 1 val 0x1af46510 (adv_entry)
Advertised metrics:
Nexthop: 192.168.0.1
Localpref: 100
AS path: [4210000001] I
Communities: target:32897:268535457 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) evpn-mcast-flags:0x1:snooping-
enabled
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.1 AR-LEAF
Cluster ID: 192.168.2.10
Originator ID: 192.168.0.1
Advertise: 0000001e
Path 3:192.168.0.1:10000::100001::192.168.0.1
from 192.168.0.1

544
Vector len 4. Val: 0 1
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.1:10000
PMSI: Flags 0x10: Label 6250: Type INGRESS-REPLICATION 192.168.0.1 AR-LEAF
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x11bd0d90
Next-hop reference count: 35023
Source: 192.168.0.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
State: <Active Int Ext>
Local AS: 4210000001 Peer AS: 4210000001
Age: 18:34:04 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4210000001.192.168.0.1
Announcement bits (1): 1-BGP_RT_Background
AS path: I
Communities: target:32897:268535457 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8) evpn-mcast-
flags:0x1:snooping-enabled
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.0.1
Secondary Tables: default-switch.evpn.0
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.1
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 1
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.101.1 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0x0
192.168.0.1/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 1
Nexthop: 172.16.101.1 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0

545
Multicast Optimization with a Centrally Routed Multicast Design—
Feature Summary
Table 18 on page 545 provides a history of the features described in this section and their support
within this reference design.
Table 18: Multicast Optimization Feature Summary (Centrally Routed Multicast Design)
Hardware IGMPv2 EVPN Type 6 Inter-VNI Assisted PIM to External
Snooping SMET Routes Multicast with Replication Rendezvous
PIM Gateway Point (From
Border)
QFX51001 Not Not Not supported Not supported Not supported
supported supported
QFX5110-32Q, 18.1R3-S3 18.4R2 Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5110-48S
QFX5120-48Y 18.4R2 18.4R2 Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5120-32C 19.1R2 19.1R2 Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5200-32C1, Not Not Not supported Not supported Not supported
QFX5200-48Y1 supported supported
QFX10002-36Q/72Q, 18.1R3-S3 18.4R2 18.1R3-S3 18.4R2 17.3R3-S1
QFX10008,
QFX10016
QFX10002-60C2 20.2R2 20.2R2 20.2R2 20.2R2 20.2R2
MX204; MX240, Not Not Not supported Not supported Not supported
MX480, MX960 with supported supported
MPC7E; MX10003;
1Make sure that IGMP snooping is not enabled on these QFX switches. If IGMP snooping is
inadvertently enabled, these switches might process EVPN Type 6 routes that are reflected to them.

546
2The QFX10002-60C switch supports multicast at a lower scale than the QFX10002-36Q/72Q
switches.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Multicast Support in EVPN-VXLAN Overlay Networks
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with
Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlays
IN THIS SECTION
Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP) | 554
Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance | 559
Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers | 564
Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
Multihoming | 566
Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices | 570
Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM
Options | 571
Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router | 575
Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices | 577
Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation | 581
This example shows how to configure our original optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM)
implementation with assisted replication (AR) in a large EVPN-VXLAN edge-routed bridging (ERB)
overlay fabric.
In EVPN ERB overlay fabric designs, the leaf devices route traffic between tenant VLANs as well as
forwarding traffic within tenant VLANs. To support efficient multicast traffic flow in a scaled ERB overlay
fabric with both internal and external multicast sources and receivers, we provide a multicast
configuration model based on RFC9625—EVPN Optimized Inter-Subnet Multicast (OISM) Forwarding .

547
OISM combines the best aspects of ERB and CRB overlay designs for multicast traffic together to
provide the most efficient multicast traffic flow in ERB overlay fabrics, especially in scaled environments.
OISM enables ERB overlay fabrics to:
• Support multicast traffic with sources and receiver both inside and outside the fabric.
• Minimize multicast control and data traffic flow in the EVPN core to optimize performance in scaled
environments.
Our original OISM implementation, called regular OISM, uses a symmetric bridge domains model. With
this model, you configure all tenant VLANs in the fabric symmetrically on all OISM devices. This example
shows a regular OISM configuration.
On some platforms we also support an enhanced version of OISM that uses an asymmetric bridge
domains model in which you don't need to configure all tenant VLANs symmetrically on all OISM
devices. The OISM configuration elements and steps are almost the same for regular and enhanced
OISM. The main difference, besides setting either OISM mode, is how you configure the tenant VLANs
with each mode. Enhanced OISM also has some important operational differences to support the
asymmetric bridge domains model. See "Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM)
Implementation" on page 613 for an enhanced OISM configuration.
Regular OISM can also interoperate with the assisted replication (AR) feature to offload and load-
balance multicast replication in the fabric to the devices better equipped to handle the load. See
Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks for details on how AR works, and
"Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks" on page 39 earlier in this guide for a short
summary of how OISM works with AR. This example includes configuring AR with regular OISM.
Figure 91 on page 548 shows the ERB overlay reference architecture in which we validated OISM and
AR on supported devices in this example.
NOTE: Starting in Junos OS Release 24.4R1, we have tested regular OISM at scale in
environments that also include configurations for the following features:
• BGP unnumbered peering with an IPv6 underlay (also referred to as BGP auto-
discovery or BGP auto-peering).
See "BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center" on page 123.
• Non-revertive preference-based designated forwarder (DF) election.
See Preference-Based DF Election.
We qualified those features with OISM but without AR enabled. We don't include
configuration instructions for those features in the regular OISM use cases described
here.

548
Figure 91: Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Fabric with OISM and AR
Here is a summary of OISM components, configuration elements, and operation in this environment. For
full details on how OISM works in different scenarios and available OISM support on different platforms,
see Optimized Intersubnet Multicast in EVPN Networks.
• In this example, the OISM devices take one of these device roles:
• Server leaf (SL)—Leaf devices that link to the access side (internal) top-of-rack (TOR) devices that
host the multicast servers and receivers inside the fabric. The SL devices can act as AR leaf
devices.
• Border Leaf (BL)—Leaf devices that link to an external PIM domain to manage multicast flow to
and from external multicast sources and receivers. The BL devices can also act as AR leaf devices.

549
• AR Replicator Spine (S-ARR)—IP fabric transit devices that serve as route reflectors in the ERB
overlay fabric and also as the AR replicator devices working with OISM. When the spine devices
in an ERB overlay act as AR replicators, they must run EVPN-VXLAN and no longer function
simply as lean spines.
• In this example, you configure OISM with a MAC-VRF EVPN instance with the VLAN-aware service
type (supports multiple VLANs in the MAC-VRF instance) on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices. You don’t
need to configure an EVPN instance on the external PIM router.
• This example configures regular OISM, which uses a symmetric bridge domains model. With this
model, you configure all tenant VLANs (also called revenue bridge domains or revenue VLANs) and
virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances in the fabric on all OISM leaf devices. If you configure
OISM with AR, you also configure these elements on the spine devices that act as AR replicators.
• OISM leaf devices do intrasubnet bridging, and use a local routing model for intersubnet (Layer 3
[L3]) multicast traffic to conserve bandwidth and avoid hairpinning in the EVPN core. See Local
Routing on OISM Devices for details.
• SL devices forward multicast source traffic into the EVPN core only on the source VLAN.
• BL devices forward traffic from external multicast sources into the EVPN core toward internal
receivers only on a supplemental bridge domain called the SBD. The SBD design enables the local
routing model and solves other issues with externally sourced traffic. For each tenant VRF
instance, you assign a VLAN and a corresponding IRB interface for the SBD.
• OISM SL devices receive multicast traffic from internal sources on the source VLAN, or from
external sources through the BL devices on the SBD. For internally sourced traffic, the SL devices
locally bridge the traffic to receivers on the source VLAN, and use IRB interfaces to locally route
the traffic to receivers on other VLANs. Upon receiving traffic from outside the fabric, the SL
devices use IRB interfaces to locally route the traffic from the SBD to the tenant VLANs and then
to their locally attached receivers.
• We support OISM with IGMPv2 (any-source multicast [ASM] reports only) or IGMPv3 (source-
specific multicast [SSM] reports only). OISM requires that you enable IGMP snooping with either
IGMP version. We use Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) in sparse mode for multicast routing
with different options on SL and BL devices according to their functions.
NOTE: To support both IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 receivers on the same device, you must:
• Use different tenant VRF instances to support the receivers for each IGMP version.
• Configure different VLANs and corresponding IRB interfaces that support the
receivers for each IGMP version.

550
• Associate the IRB interfaces for each version with the corresponding tenant VRF
instance.
See Considerations for OISM Configurations for details on the required configuration
considerations. The configuration we tested here accommodates receivers for both
versions on the same device.
• With IGMP snooping, OISM also optimizes multicast traffic using EVPN Type 6 routes for selective
multicast Ethernet tag (SMET) forwarding. With SMET, OISM devices only forward traffic for a
multicast group to other devices in the fabric with receivers that show interest in receiving that
traffic. (Multicast receivers send IGMP join messages to request traffic for a multicast group.)
In the regular OISM model used here, OISM devices advertise EVPN Type 6 routes only on the SBD.
• OISM supports EVPN multihoming with multicast traffic. The fabric can include receivers behind
TOR devices that are multihomed in an Ethernet segment (ES) to more than one OISM leaf device.
You configure an ES identifier (ESI) for the links in the ES.
OISM devices use EVPN Type 7 (Join Sync) and Type 8 (Leave Sync) routes to synchronize the
multicast state among the multihoming peer devices that serve an ES.
In this environment, we validate OISM and AR together at scale with the AR replicator role on the spine
devices. "Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role on OISM Leaf Devices"
on page 577 explains more about how AR works in this example. When the AR replicator role is not
collocated with an OISM border leaf role on the same device, as in this example, we say the AR
replicator operates in standalone AR replicator mode. The OISM SL and BL devices act as AR leaf
devices.
We call devices that don’t support AR regular network virtualization edge (RNVE) devices. The test
environment includes an SL device (see SL-3 in Figure 91 on page 548) on which we don’t configure the
AR leaf role to simulate an RNVE device. With RNVE devices in the fabric:
• The RNVE devices use ingress replication to forward multicast traffic to other leaf devices in the
fabric.
• The AR replicators use ingress replication instead of AR to forward multicast source data to the
RNVE devices.
In this chapter, we show configuration and verification for a small subset of the scaled environment in
which we validate OISM and AR together. Although the scaled test environment includes more devices,
configured elements, multicast sources, and subscribed receivers, in this example we show configuration
and verification output for the following elements:
• One EVPN instance, MACVRF-1, which is a MAC-VRF instance with VLAN-aware service type and
VXLAN encapsulation.
• Multicast stream use cases that encompass:

551
• IGMPv2 or IGMPv3 traffic.
• Internal or external multicast sources.
• Two tenant VRF instances, one for IGMPv3 receivers and one for IGMPv2 receivers.
For each tenant VRF instance, we define:
• Four tenant VLANs with VXLAN tunnel network identifier (VNI) mappings, and corresponding IRB
interfaces in the tenant VRF instance.
In the OISM design, we refer to the tenant VLANs as revenue bridge domains or revenue VLANs.
• One SBD VLAN mapped to a VNI, and a corresponding IRB interface in the tenant VRF instance.
• One multicast source inside the data center, and one multicast source outside the data center in the
external PIM domain.
You configure the BL devices to act as PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) devices for the EVPN fabric. In this
example, we connect PEG devices through classic L3 interfaces to an external PIM router and PIM
rendezvous point (RP). The L3 interfaces on each of the BL PEG devices link to the external PIM
router on different subnets.
• Multicast receivers that subscribe to one or more multicast groups.
NOTE: Each multicast stream has multiple receivers subscribed to traffic from each
source. The multicast traffic verification commands in this example focus on the first
receiver device in the Receivers column in Table 19 on page 551.
See Table 19 on page 551 for a summary of these elements and their values. Figure 91 on page 548
illustrates the device roles and the first two corresponding IRB interfaces, VLANs, and VNI mappings for
each of the tenant VRFs in the table.
Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example
Multicast Tenant VRF VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and Source Receivers Multicast
Stream VNI Mappings Groups
Internal VRF-1 VLAN-1, VNI 110001 TOR-1 on TOR-4 233.252.0.21
source, irb.1 VLAN-1 (Multihomed through
internal (Multihomed to SL-4 and 233.252.0.23
receivers to SL-1 and SL-5)
VLAN-2, VNI 110002 233.252.0.12
with IGMPv3 SL-2)
irb.2 Other 1 through
receivers:

552
Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example (Continued)
Multicast Tenant VRF VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and Source Receivers Multicast
Stream VNI Mappings Groups
—SSM TOR-2 233.252.0.12
VLAN-3, VNI 110003
reports only (Single- 3
irb.3
homed to
SL-3)
VLAN-4, VNI 110004
TOR-3
irb.4
(Multihomed
to SL-4 and
(SBD) VNI 992001 SL-5)
VLAN-2001,
TOR-5
irb.2001
(Single-
homed to
SL-6)
External VRF-101 VLAN-401, VNI 110401 External TOR-1 on 233.252.0.1
source, irb.401 Source (In VLAN-1 through
internal External PIM (Multihomed 233.252.0.3
receivers Domain) to SL-1 and
VLAN-402, VNI 110402 233.252.0.10
with IGMPv2 SL2)
irb.402 1 through
—ASM
Other 233.252.0.10
reports only
receivers: 3
VLAN-403, VNI 110403
irb.403 TOR-2
(Single-
homed to
VLAN-404, VNI 110404 SL-3)
irb.404
TOR-3
(Multihomed
to SL-4 and
SL-5)
TOR-4
(Multihomed
to SL-4 and
SL-5)
TOR-5
(Single-

553
Table 19: OISM Streams and Elements in this Example (Continued)
Multicast Tenant VRF VLANs, IRB Interfaces, and Source Receivers Multicast
Stream VNI Mappings Groups
homed to
(SBD) VNI 992101
SL-6)
VLAN-2101,
irb.2101
See Table 20 on page 553 for a summary of the BL device and external PIM router L3 connection
parameters. In this example, the BL devices both use aggregated Ethernet (AE) interface ae3 for the
external L3 connection, with different subnets per BL device. In the scaled-out test environment, the
configuration uses a range of logical units on the ae3 interface with corresponding VLANs per tenant
VRF, starting with unit 0 and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1. We focus on tenant VRF instances VRF-1 and
VRF-101 in this example.
Table 20: External Multicast L3 Interface Parameters
BL Tenant External L3 Associated BL L3 Logical PIM Router PIM RP Logical
Device VRF Interface VLAN Interface IP Logical Interface Unit and IP
Instance Logical Unit Address and IP Address Address
BL-1 VRF-1 unit 0: ae3.0 VLAN-3001 172.30.0.1 ae1.0: lo0.1:
172.30.0.0 172.22.2.1
VRF-101 unit 100: VLAN-3101 172.30.100.1 ae1.100: lo0.101:
ae3.100 172.30.100.0 172.22.102.1
BL-2 VRF-1 unit 0: ae3.0 VLAN-3001 172.31.0.1 ae2.0: lo0.1:
172.31.0.0 172.22.2.1
VRF-101 unit 100: VLAN-3101 172.31.100.1 ae2.100: lo0.101:
ae3.100 172.31.100.0 172.22.102.1
You configure these parameters in "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast
Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571.
We divide the configuration into several sections.

554
Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP)
We use eBGP for the underlay and iBGP for the overlay following the reference architectures in "IP
Fabric Underlay Network Design and Implementation" on page 81 and "Configure IBGP for the Overlay"
on page 97.
This example uses AE interfaces with one or two member links each for all of the connections for
redundancy.
• Figure 92 on page 555 shows the AE interface IP addresses for the links between the S-ARR
devices and the BL devices.
NOTE: You configure the L3 interfaces from the BL devices to the external PIM router
in "Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN
Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on page 571
• Figure 93 on page 556 shows the AE interface IP addresses for the links between the S-ARR
devices and the SL devices.
NOTE: You configure the links from the SL devices to the TOR devices in "Configure
Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
Multihoming" on page 566

555
Figure 92: OISM BL Device Links to S-ARR Devices and External PIM Router

556
Figure 93: OISM SL Device Links to S-ARR Devices and TOR Devices
1. Configure the approximate number of aggregated Ethernet (AE) interfaces in the configuration.
For example:
All SL and BL Devices:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 10
S-ARR Devices:
set chassis aggregated-devices ethernet device-count 20
2. Follow the procedure in "Configuring the Aggregated Ethernet Interfaces Connecting Spine Devices
to Leaf Devices" on page 84 to configure the AE interfaces for the underlay on all the BL, SL, and S-
ARR devices.
See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556 for the device IP addresses, AS numbers, and
the AE interface names and IP addresses in this example.

557
3. Configure the eBGP underlay on the BL and SL devices. On each BL and SL device, set S-ARR-1 (AS:
4200000021) and S-ARR-2 (AS: 4200000022) as BGP neighbors. Similarly, on each S-ARR device,
set each of the BL and SL devices as BGP neighbors. See "IP Fabric Underlay Network Design and
Implementation" on page 81 for details.
See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556 for the device IP addresses, AS numbers, and
the AE interface names and IP addresses in this example.
For example:
SL-1 (device AS: 4200000011):
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1200
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown
4. Configure the iBGP overlay with an overlay AS number and EVPN signaling on the SL, BL, and S-ARR
devices. See "Configure IBGP for the Overlay" on page 97 for details.
On each SL and BL device, set the spine devices S-ARR-1 (lo0:192.168.2.1) and S-ARR-2
(192.168.2.2) in the overlay AS as BGP neighbors. For example:
SL-1 (device lo0: 192.168.0.1):
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr type internal
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr local-address 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-
delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr multipath
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.2.1

558
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.2.2
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr vpn-apply-export
Repeat this step for each SL and BL device, substituting that device loopback IP address for the local-
address option. See Figure 92 on page 555 and Figure 93 on page 556.
On each S-ARR device, set all of the SL and BL devices in the overlay AS as BGP neighbors. For
example:
S-ARR-1 (device lo0: 192.168.2.1):
set routing-options autonomous-system 4210000001
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr type internal
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr local-address 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr mtu-discovery
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-
delay routing-uptime 400
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr cluster 192.168.2.1
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr multipath
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.5.1
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.5.2
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.2
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.3
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.4
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.5
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr neighbor 192.168.0.6
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr vpn-apply-export
5. Set MAC aging, Address Resolution Protocol (ARP), and Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP) timer
values to support MAC address learning and IPv4 and IPv6 route learning. These parameters are
common settings in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics and are not specific to the OISM or AR feature
configurations.

559
Set these values on all SL and BL devices.
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-ip-table-aging-time 3600
set protocols l2-learning global-mac-table-aging-time 4200
set system arp aging-timer 60
Set the NDP stale timer on all IRB interfaces for IPv6 neighbor reachability confirmation on all SL and
BL devices for IPv6 unicast traffic.
NOTE: You apply this setting to all IRB interfaces that might handle IPv6 unicast traffic,
so you usually add this statement to a configuration group of common statements and
apply the group to all interfaces.
set interfaces irb unit unit-number family inet6 nd6-stale-time 3600
Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance
The scaled test environment includes multiple MAC-VRF EVPN instances. We show one instance called
MACVRF-1 here that we use for OISM and AR traffic.
NOTE: We require that you enable the shared tunnels feature on the QFX5000 line of
switches running Junos OS with a MAC-VRF instance configuration. This feature
prevents problems with VTEP scaling on the device when the configuration uses multiple
MAC-VRF instances. When you configure shared tunnels, the device minimizes the
number of next-hop entries to reach remote VTEPs. You globally enable shared VXLAN
tunnels on the device using the shared-tunnels statement at the [edit forwarding-options
evpn-vxlan] hierarchy level. You must reboot the device for this setting to take effect.
This statement is optional on the QFX10000 line of switches running Junos OS, which
can handle higher VTEP scaling than the QFX5000 line of switches. On devices running
Junos OS Evolved in EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, shared tunnels are enabled by default.
Configure the elements in these steps on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
NOTE: This example includes the AR multicast optimization with OISM. The spine
devices (S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2) in the fabric serve as standalone AR replicator devices.

560
For AR to work with the regular OISM symmetric bridge domains model, you must also
configure all the common OISM SL and BL elements on the standalone AR replicator
devices, such as the MAC-VRF instance, VLANs, tenant VRFs, and IRB interfaces.
If the spine devices don’t run as AR replicators, you don’t need to configure these
elements on the spine devices.
1. Configure MACVRF-1, an EVPN MAC-VRF instance with the VLAN-aware service type. Specify the
VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) source interface as the device loopback interface. Set a route
distinguisher and route target (with automatic route target derivation) for the instance. Also, enable
all VNIs in the instance to extend into the EVPN BGP domain.
For example:
SL-1:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:33301
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vrf-target target:33300:1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vrf-target auto
Repeat this step on the remaining SL devices, BL-1, BL-2, S-ARR-1, and S-ARR-2. In the configuration
on each device, substitute that device’s IP address as part of the route-distinguisher statement value
so these values are unique across the devices.
2. Configure platform-specific settings required in scaled EVPN-VXLAN environments. You configure
these options on the devices in the fabric that operate in any OISM or AR role.
a. On Junos OS devices in the QFX5000 line of switches , include the global shared tunnels
configuration statement. This setting supports VXLAN tunneling with MAC-VRF instances on
those devices in scaled environments:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels

561
NOTE: If you need to configure the shared tunnels setting here, after you commit
the configuration, you must reboot the device for the shared tunnels setting to take
affect.
The shared tunnels feature is set by default on devices that run Junos OS Evolved.
b. On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches, configure the host-profile unified forwarding profile option
to support an EVPN-VXLAN environment (see Layer 2 Forwarding Tables for details):
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
c. On QFX5110 and QFX5120 switches, configure next hop settings for scaled environments to
ensure next hops table size is proportional to the device capacity, as follows:
QFX5110 switches:
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 32768
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing interface-num 8192
QFX5120 switches:
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 45056
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing interface-num 8192
3. Configure the OISM revenue VLANs and SBD VLANs in the EVPN MACVRF-1 instance. Map each
VLAN to a VXLAN VNI value. Also, create IRB interfaces for each VLAN. See Table 19 on page 551
for the VLANs and VNI values we use in this example. You configure one SBD and corresponding IRB
for each VRF.
Configure these elements on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vlan-id 1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 l3-interface irb.1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vxlan vni 110001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 l3-interface irb.2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vxlan vni 110002
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 l3-interface irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vxlan vni 110003

562
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 l3-interface irb.4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vxlan vni 110004
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 vlan-id 2001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 l3-interface irb.2001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 vxlan vni 992001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-401 vlan-id 401
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-401 l3-interface irb.401
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-401 vxlan vni 110401
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-402 vlan-id 402
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-402 l3-interface irb.402
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-402 vxlan vni 110402
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-403 vlan-id 403
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-403 l3-interface irb.403
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-404 vxlan vni 110403
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-404 vlan-id 404
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-404 l3-interface irb.404
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-404 vxlan vni 110404
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2101 vlan-id 2101
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2101 l3-interface irb.2101
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2101 vxlan vni 992101
4. Enable OISM globally on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
NOTE: The S-ARR spine devices in this example serve as standalone AR replicator
devices, so you must enable OISM on them too. If the spine devices don’t run as AR
replicators, you don’t need to enable OISM on those devices.
set forwarding-options multicast-replication evpn irb oism
5. Enable IGMP snooping in the MAC-VRF instance for all OISM tenant (revenue) VLANs and SBD
VLANs on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
NOTE: You enable IGMP snooping on the S-ARR devices because they act as AR
replicator devices. AR replicators use IGMP snooping to optimize traffic forwarding.

563
In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support IGMPv2 traffic with ASM reports only. We support IGMPv3
traffic with SSM reports only. When you enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv3 traffic, include the SSM-
specific option evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option as shown below. See Supported IGMP or
MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with
EVPN-VXLAN.
IGMP snooping with IGMPv2 on all VLANs:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan all proxy
IGMP snooping on VLANs with IGMPv3 receivers (VLAN-1 through VLAN-4, according to Table 19
on page 551):
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-1 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-3 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-4 evpn-ssm-reports-only
6. Enable IGMP on the IRB interfaces that handle multicast traffic on the SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
IGMPv2 is enabled by default when you configure PIM, but you need to explicitly enable IGMPv3 on
the IRB interfaces that handle IGMPv3 traffic. According to Table 19 on page 551, the IGMPv3 IRB
interfaces are irb.1, irb.2, irb.3, and irb.4, which are associated with VRF-1:
set protocols igmp interface irb.1 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.2 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.3 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.4 version 3
7. (Required on any devices configured as AR replicators with OISM, and on the QFX10000 line of
switches and the PTX10000 line of routers in any OISM role only in releases prior to Junos OS or
Junos OS Evolved Release 23.4R1) To avoid traffic loss at the onset of multicast flows, set the
install-star-g-routes option at the [edit routing-instances name multicast-snooping-options oism] hierarchy.
You set this parameter in the MAC-VRF instance. With this option, the Routing Engine installs (*,G)
multicast routes on the Packet Forwarding Engine for all of the OISM revenue VLANs in the routing
instance immediately upon learning about any interested receiver. See Latency and Scaling Trade-
Offs for Installing Multicast Routes with OISM (install-star-g-routes Option) for more on using this
option.
For example, in this test environment, S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 are AR replicators, so we configure this
statement in the MAC-VRF routing instance on those devices. Also, SL-4 and SL-5 are switches in the

564
QFX10000 line switches, so if those devices are running earlier releases than Junos OS or Junos OS
Evolved Release 23.4R1, you would also configure this statement on those devices.
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 multicast-snooping-options oism install-star-g-routes
Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast
Receivers
The scaled test environment includes many tenant L3 VRF instances. We show the VRF instances for
the two multicast use cases in Table 19 on page 551:
• VRF-1 for IGMPv3 traffic pulled from an internal source.
• VRF-101 for IGMPv2 traffic pulled from an external source.
Configure the elements in these steps in those VRF instances on all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
NOTE: The S-ARR spine devices in this example also serve as standalone AR replicator
devices, so you must configure all the tenant VRF settings on them too. If the spine
devices don’t run as AR replicators, you don’t need to include these steps on those
devices.
You also configure different PIM options in the tenant VRF instances for SL devices compared to BL
devices. See "Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices" on page 570 and "Configure the
Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options" on
page 571 for those configuration steps. You don’t need to configure PIM on the S-ARR devices.
1. Configure the tenant VRF instances.
Include the IRB interfaces associated with each tenant VRF instance. Set a route distinguisher based
on the device IP address, and a route target for the instance.
For example:
SL-1:
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
set routing-instances VRF-101 instance-type vrf

565
set routing-instances VRF-101 route-distinguisher 192.168.0.1:101
set routing-instances VRF-101 vrf-target target:100:101
Repeat this step on the remaining SL devices, BL-1, BL-2, S-ARR-1, and S-ARR-2. On each device,
configure the route-distinguisher to be unique across the devices and tenant VRFs. Substitute the
device IP address from Figure 92 on page 555 or Figure 93 on page 556, and the VRF instance
number for each tenant VRF, as follows:
• On SL-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.0.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.0.2:101 for VRF-101.
On SL-3, use route-distinguisher 192.168.0.3:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.0.3:101 for VRF-101.
And so on for the remaining SL devices.
• On BL-1, use route-distinguisher 192.168.5.1:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.5.1:101 for VRF-101.
On BL-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.5.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.5.2:101 for VRF-101.
• On S-ARR-1, use route-distinguisher 192.168.2.1:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.2.1:101 for VRF-101.
On S-ARR-2, use route-distinguisher 192.168.2.2:1 for VRF-1, and 192.168.2.2:101 for VRF-101.
2. In each VRF instance, include the corresponding IRB interfaces for the OISM revenue VLANs and the
SBD associated with that instance, according to Table 19 on page 551:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface irb.401
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface irb.402
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface irb.403
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface irb.404
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface irb.2101
Repeat the same configuration all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
3. Identify the IRB interface for the OISM SBD associated with each tenant VRF instance, as outlined in
Table 19 on page 551:
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2101

566
Repeat the same configuration all SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
4. On any SL, BL, and S-ARR devices that have a single Routing Engine, configure the graceful restart
feature for each tenant VRF:
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-101 routing-options graceful-restart
Configure Server Leaf to TOR Interfaces and Ethernet Segment
Identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN Multihoming
The TOR devices host the multicast sources and receivers inside the fabric. These devices have single-
homed or multihomed connections to the SL devices in the EVPN core. See Figure 93 on page 556 for
the topology in this example. TOR-1, TOR-3, and TOR-4 are each multihomed to two SL devices, and
TOR-2 and TOR-5 are single-homed. Figure 93 on page 556 shows that:
• The SL devices all use interface ae3 to connect to the TOR devices.
• SL4 and SL-5 use interfaces ae3 and ae5 for redundant connections to TOR-3 and TOR-4,
respectively.
• Each multihomed TOR device uses interfaces ae1 and ae2 to connect to its peer SL devices.
• For consistency in the configuration, the single-homed TORs (TOR-2 and TOR-5) also use interfaces
ae1 and ae2 but as redundant links to a single SL device.
Also, starting in Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2, you can additionally configure the
network isolation feature on the multihomed TOR-facing interfaces on the SL devices to help mitigate
traffic loss during core isolation events on those interfaces. In this example, Step 4 shows how to
configure the network isolation feature on the interfaces from SL-1 and SL-2 to multihomed device
TOR-1.
NOTE: Although this example doesn't show any multihomed server-facing or TOR-facing
interfaces on the BL devices, you can similarly configure the network isolation feature
for any such interfaces on BL devices.
1. Configure the server leaf to TOR interfaces and Ethernet segment identifiers (ESIs) for EVPN
multihoming.
On multihoming peer SL devices, configure the same ESI on the AE interface links to the multihomed
TOR device. Also enable LACP and LACP hold timers on the interfaces. See "Multihoming an

567
Ethernet-Connected End System Design and Implementation" on page 229 for more details on
configuring these interfaces and the corresponding Ethernet segment identifiers (ESIs).
NOTE: See Step 4 in this section to add configuring the device to detect and take action
upon network isolation events on these interfaces. If you include that configuration,
make sure the "up" hold timer configured here in this step is greater than the "up" hold
timer in the network isolation group profile in that step.
For example:
On SL-1 for the multihoming interfaces to TOR-1:
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:0 hold-time up 300000
set interfaces xe-0/0/6:0 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:01:00:3
set interfaces ae3 esi all-active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 300
Repeat this configuration on SL-2, the multihoming peer to SL-1. Use the corresponding interface for
the link on SL-2 to TOR-1, and the same ESI.
On SL-2 for the multihoming interfaces to TOR-1:
set interfaces xe-0/0/12 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces xe-0/0/12 hold-time up 300000
set interfaces xe-0/0/12 hold-time down 1000
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:01:00:01:00:03
set interfaces ae3 esi all-active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp system-id 00:00:00:99:99:01
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp hold-time up 300
2. Repeat the configuration in Step 1 above on the other SL devices that serve multihomed TOR
devices.
Use a different ESI for each corresponding multihoming peer SL device pair. See Figure 93 on page
556. In this example, all SL devices use ae3 to link to the TOR devices. SL-4 and SL-5 use ae3 to link

568
to TOR-3, and additionally use ae5 to link to TOR-4. As a result, you set one ESI for the ae3 links and
a different ESI for the ae5 links on both of those SL devices.
Here we assign ESI values with the following conventions:
• The 6th segment from the right in the ESI value matches the number of the multihomed TOR.
• The last segment of the ESI value matches the AE interface number.
For example:
• On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to multihomed TOR-3 (link is ae3 on both SL devices):
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:03:00:01:00:03
• On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to multihomed TOR-4 (link is ae5 on both SL devices):
set interfaces ae3 esi 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05
TOR-2 is single-homed to SL-3, so you don’t configure an ESI on the ae3 interface on SL-3.
Similarly, TOR-5 is single-homed to SL-6, so you don’t configure an ESI on the ae3 interface on SL-6.
NOTE: The test environment also includes separate AE interfaces (ae4 on each SL
device) and ESIs (for the multihomed TOR devices) that the fabric uses for unicast
traffic. We only show configuring the multicast ESIs here.
3. Include the interfaces to the TOR devices in the MAC-VRF instance on each SL device—ae3 on all SL
devices, and also ae5 on SL-4 and SL-5.
For example:
On SL-1 for the interface to TOR-1 (and repeat this configuration on SL-2 for the interface to TOR-1,
SL-3 for the interface to TOR-2, and SL-6 for the interface to TOR-5):
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae3.0
On SL-4 and SL-5 for the interfaces to TOR-3 and TOR-4:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae3.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae5.0

569
4. (Optional in releases starting with Junos OS and Junos OS Evolved Release 23.2R2 with this OISM
configuration) Configure the network isolation service-tracking feature on SL-1 and SL-2 for interface
ae3 to TOR-1. With this feature, the device changes the interface status upon detecting and
recovering from a core isolation event. See Layer 2 Interface Status Tracking and Shutdown Actions
for EVPN Core Isolation Conditions, network-isolation, and network-isolation-profile for details on
how this feature works. To enable this feature, we:
• Set up a network isolation group net-isolation-grp-1 with core isolation service tracking using the
network-isolation statement.
• Include an "up" hold time (in ms) that the device will wait upon detecting recovery from network
isolation before acting to bring the interface up again.
NOTE: The "up" hold time you configure here for core isolation event detection
should be less than the general "up" hold timer on the interfaces for the ESI in Step
1. For example, in that step, the interface "up" hold timer is 300000 ms; here, we set
the "up" hold timer for the network isolation group to 100000 ms.
• Configure the device to set either lacp-out-of-sync or link-down status on the interface as the core
isolation action. For example, here we set the lacp-out-of-sync action.
• Apply the network isolation group to the interface using the network-isolation-profile statement.
• Because core isolation service tracking improves the convergence time for the ESI routes, we
don't need to include a delay in the overlay BGP route advertisements. As a result, on devices
where we configure the network isolation feature on TOR-facing interfaces, we remove the delay-
route-advertisements settings from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay
(with IBGP)" on page 554.
For example:
On SL-1 for the multihoming interface(s) to TOR-1:
set protocols network-isolation group net-isolation-grp-1 detection hold-time up 100000
set protocols network-isolation group net-isolation-grp-1 detection service-tracking core-
isolation
set protocols network-isolation group net-isolation-grp-1 service-tracking-action lacp-out-of-
sync
set interfaces ae3 network-isolation-profile net-isolation-grp-1
delete protocols bgp group cluster-rr family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements

570
Repeat this configuration on SL-2 for ae3 with the same network isolation group profile parameters.
You can set up the same or similar network isolation group profiles on the other multihoming peer SL
devices, SL-4 and SL-5, which use ae3 for the ESI to TOR-3 and ae5 for the ESI to TOR-4.
Also, when we enable the network isolation feature on the SL device interfaces, with that
configuration we remove the overlay route advertisement delay setting on the device. We still need
to retain the overlay delay-route-advertisements minimum-delay routing-uptime setting on S-ARR-1 and S-
ARR-2 from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with IBGP)" on page
554. However, with the network isolation feature configured in the network, we observed better
results testing with a higher setting on the S-ARR devices than the setting in that step. As a result, in
this case we recommend you also change the following:
On S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 from Step 4 in "Configure the Underlay (with EBGP) And the Overlay (with
IBGP)" on page 554:
...
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-
delay routing-uptime 400
...
change that configuration to:
...
set protocols bgp group cluster-rr family evpn signaling delay-route-advertisements minimum-
delay routing-uptime 500
...
Configure OSPF and PIM on the Server Leaf Devices
In this procedure, you configure the OISM elements specific to server leaf functions, such as PIM, in the
tenant VRF instances in this example—VRF-1 and VRF-101. Configure these steps on all SL devices.
1. (Optional) Configure an OSPF area for each tenant VRF, but with all interfaces on the SL devices in
OSPF passive mode so the devices can advertise routes but don't form OSPF adjacencies.
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols ospf interface all passive

571
2. Configure PIM in passive mode on the SL devices for all interfaces in each of the VRF routing
instances.
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim passive
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface all
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim passive
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface all
3. Set the PIM accept-remote-source option to enable the SL devices to accept multicast traffic from the
SBD IRB interface as the source interface. With the regular OISM symmetric bridge domains model,
any multicast traffic coming from external sources arrives at the SL devices on the SBD.
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.2101 accept-remote-source
Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity,
PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and PIM Options
In this procedure, you configure the OISM elements specific to border leaf functions, including the steps
to connect to the external PIM domain. Configure statements in this procedure on each BL device.
NOTE: This example connects to the external PIM router using classic L3 interface links.
OISM supports additional methods to connect to the external domain depending on the
platform of the BL device. See External Multicast Connection Methods in the EVPN User
Guide for a list of supported external multicast methods per platform.
1. Configure the L3 interfaces that connect to the external PIM router.
In this example, both BL devices use interface ae3 for this purpose with a different subnet for each
BL device connection per tenant VRF. The physical interfaces in the AE interface bundle might differ
across the BL devices. Figure 92 on page 555 shows the BL device and link information for this
example.
The external L3 multicast connection uses the ae3 interface with VLAN tagging enabled. In the
scaled environment, we configure logical units on the ae3 interface and corresponding VLANs per
tenant VRF starting with unit 0 and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1. In this example we show configuring
ae3.0 in VRF-1 and ae3.100 in VRF-101 on both BL devices. See Table 20 on page 553 for a
summary of the external L3 interface connection configuration parameters.

572
BL-1:
set interfaces et-0/0/0:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces ae3 vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae3 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 vlan-id 3001
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.30.0.1/31 preferred
set interfaces ae3 unit 100 vlan-id 3101
set interfaces ae3 unit 100 family inet address 172.30.100.1/31 preferred
BL-2:
set interfaces xe-0/0/14:0 ether-options 802.3ad ae3
set interfaces ae3 vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae3 mtu 9192
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae3 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 vlan-id 3001
set interfaces ae3 unit 0 family inet address 172.31.0.1/31 preferred
set interfaces ae3 unit 100 vlan-id 3101
set interfaces ae3 unit 100 family inet address 172.31.100.1/31 preferred
2. Include the logical L3 interfaces in the tenant VRF instances. Both BL devices use ae3 for the
external multicast connection, so use the same configuration on both devices.
BL-1 and BL-2:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface ae3.0
set routing-instances VRF-101 interface ae3.100
3. Configure each of the BL devices with the OISM PEG role in each tenant VRF.

573
BL-1 and BL-2:
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn oism pim-evpn-gateway
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols evpn oism pim-evpn-gateway
4. Configure PIM in the tenant VRF instances, including the following for each tenant VRF in this
example:
• In this environment, set a static PIM RP address corresponding to the external PIM router and RP
router (one for each logical unit and associated tenant VRF).
• Configure PIM on the OISM revenue VLAN IRB interfaces and include the PIM distributed-dr
option.
• Configure classic PIM (no distributed-dr option) on the SBD IRB interface, the logical unit L3
interface and logical loopback interface.
With PIM on the SBD IRB interface, include the accept-remote-source option to enable the BL
devices to accept multicast traffic from the SBD IRB interface as the source interface. This option
handles situations where the BL devices might send source traffic to each other on the SBD. See
Multicast Traffic from an External Source to Receivers Inside the EVPN Data Center—L3 Interface
Method or Non-EVPN IRB Method in the EVPN User Guide for more information on those
situations.
• With PIM on the SBD IRB interface, enable Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) and the
stickydr option. The BFD settings improve convergence time with interface issues to help avoid
traffic loss. The stickydr option eliminates designated router switchover convergence delay during
reboot events.
Include the same configuration on BL-1 and BL-2.
For VRF-1:
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface ae3.0
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim rp static address 172.22.2.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.1 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.3 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.4 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection minimum-interval 1000
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 family inet bfd-liveness-

574
detection multiplier 3
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 stickydr
For VRF-101:
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface ae3.100
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim rp static address 172.22.102.1
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.401 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.402 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.403 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.404 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface lo0.101
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.2101 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.2101 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection minimum-interval 1000
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols pim interface irb.2101 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection multiplier 3
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2101 stickydr
See OISM Components in the EVPN User Guide for details on why we configure these PIM options
on the BL devices.
5. Configure an OSPF area for each tenant VRF instance that includes the external multicast logical L3
interface and the SBD IRB interface, both in OSPF active mode. This step establishes an OSPF
routing domain with these interfaces as neighbors in the tenant VRF to support routing among them.
Include the other interfaces on the device in the OSPF area but in OSPF passive mode, so they can
advertise routes but don't form OSPF adjacencies.
You also define and include the export-direct export policy, which exports addresses of the directly-
connected IRB interfaces on a particular BL device into the OSPF routing protocol.
The configuration is the same on both BL devices.
BL-1 and BL-2:
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 then accept
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface ae3.0
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf export export-direct
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface ae3.100
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2101

575
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-101 protocols ospf export export-direct
Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP Router
In this example, an MX Series router acts as the external PIM domain router and PIM RP device. In this
procedure, we include the configuration on this device that matches the BL device configuration in
"Configure the Border Leaf Devices for External Multicast Connectivity, PIM EVPN Gateway Role, and
PIM Options" on page 571. This information helps you interpret show command output to verify the
setup, connectivity, and group memberships established for the OISM and AR devices in the fabric.
The PIM router and RP router configuration includes:
• Connections to BL-1 on interface ae1 and to BL-2 on interface ae2, with VLAN-tagging enabled.
• Routing instances of type virtual-router (PIM-GW-VR-n) that correspond to each tenant VRF-n in the
OISM configuration on the BL devices.
• Logical units on ae1 and ae2 with corresponding VLANs per virtual router VRF, starting with unit 0
and VLAN-3001 for VRF-1.
• A PIM RP IP address for each virtual router VRF instance.
This procedure shows configuring the following on the PIM router and RP router, as listed in Table 20 on
page 553:
• PIM-GW-VR-1 (corresponding to VRF-1) and VLAN 3001 with:
• Interface ae1.0 to BL-1.
• Interface ae2.0 to BL-2.
• PIM-GW-VR-101 (corresponding to VRF-101) and VLAN-3101 with:
• Interface ae1.100 to BL-1.
• Interface ae2.100 to BL-2.
1. Configure the L3 interfaces on the PIM router that connect to the BL devices (ae1 to BL-1 and ae2 to
BL-2).
set interfaces xe-1/3/0 gigether-options 802.3ad ae1
set interfaces ae1 vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1

576
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae1 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 vlan-id 3001
set interfaces ae1 unit 0 family inet address 172.30.0.0/31
set interfaces ae1 unit 1 vlan-id 3101
set interfaces ae1 unit 1 family inet address 172.30.100.0/31
set interfaces xe-2/1/2 gigether-options 802.3ad ae2
set interfaces ae2 vlan-tagging
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options minimum-links 1
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp active
set interfaces ae2 aggregated-ether-options lacp periodic fast
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 vlan-id 3001
set interfaces ae2 unit 0 family inet address 172.31.0.0/31
set interfaces ae2 unit 1 vlan-id 3101
set interfaces ae2 unit 1 family inet address 172.31.100.0/31
2. Configure virtual router routing instances corresponding to the OISM tenant VRFs and VLANs in this
example.
Include the L3 interfaces to BL-1 and BL-2 in the routing instances, as well as the device logical
loopback interface and logical interfaces that connect to the external source for each routing
instance.
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 instance-type virtual-router
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 interface ae1.0
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 interface ae2.0
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 interface xe-1/3/3.3001
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 instance-type virtual-router
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 interface ae1.100
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 interface ae2.100
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 interface lo0.101
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 interface xe-1/3/3.3101
3. In each of the routing instances, configure PIM, a static IP address for the PIM RP, and an OSPF area
for PIM for the interfaces.
See Table 20 on page 553 for the PIM RP static addresses we use in this example.
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 protocols pim rp local address 172.22.2.1

577
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-1 protocols pim interface all
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 protocols pim rp local address 172.22.102.1
set routing-instances PIM-GW-VR-101 protocols pim interface all
Configure AR Replicator Role on OISM Spine Devices and AR Leaf Role
on OISM Leaf Devices
In an ERB overlay fabric, you can enable OISM with AR. You can assign the AR replicator role to one or
more spine devices in the fabric. When a spine device runs as an AR replicator, the AR replicator
operates in standalone AR replicator mode. This means the AR replicator role is not collocated with the
OISM border leaf role on the device.
When an ingress AR leaf device needs to forward multicast traffic to other AR leaf devices, it uses an AR
overlay VXLAN tunnel to send only one copy of the traffic to an available AR replicator device instead.
Then, also using AR overlay VXLAN tunnels, the AR replicator device replicates and forwards the traffic
to the other AR leaf devices with receivers that subscribed to the multicast stream. AR replicators use
ingress replication instead of AR to forward multicast traffic directly to leaf devices that don’t support
AR (what we call RNVE devices).
AR leaf devices balance the load of AR replicator requests among the available AR replicator devices
using one of two methods, depending on the leaf device platform:
• QFX5000 line of switches (models that run either Junos OS or Junos OS Evolved)—These devices
designate a particular AR replicator device for traffic associated with each VLAN or VNI. In this case,
the show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops CLI command output shows the
designated AR replicator for each VNI as the (Designated Node).
• QFX10000 line of switches—These devices actively load-balance among the AR replicators based on
traffic flow levels within a VNI. The device doesn’t designate a particular AR replicator for each VNI.
In this example, we have multicast flows from an internal source and an external source. The ERB
overlay fabric spine devices (S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2) act as AR replicator devices. The OISM SL and BL
devices act as AR leaf devices, except SL-3, which simulates an RNVE device (we don’t enable the AR
leaf role on that device). Figure 94 on page 578 shows how AR works if we consider the multicast
streams and corresponding fabric parameters in this example from Table 19 on page 551.

578
Figure 94: AR with OISM Internal and External Multicast Sources
• In the internal source use case:
1. SL-1 is the ingress device for an internal multicast stream from multihomed TOR-1 on source
VLAN VLAN-1 for traffic to receivers in tenant VRF VRF-1.
2. SL-1 (a QFX5120 switch) forwards the traffic to its designated AR replicator for VLAN-1 (VNI
110001). The designated AR replicator is S-ARR-1 in this case.
3. S-ARR-1 replicates and forwards the stream on the source VLAN to the AR leaf devices that host
TOR devices with subscribed receivers.
4. The destination SL devices forward or locally route the traffic to their subscribed receivers.
• In the external source use case:

579
1. BL-1 is the ingress device for an external multicast stream from the external PIM domain for
traffic to receivers in tenant VRF VRF-101.
2. BL-1 (a QFX5130 switch) forwards the traffic to its designated AR replicator for the SBD VLAN,
VLAN-2101 (VNI 992101). The designated AR replicator is S-ARR-2 in this case.
3. S-ARR-2 replicates and forwards the stream on the SBD VLAN using AR tunnels to the AR leaf
devices that host TORs with subscribed receivers.
4. S-ARR-2 also replicates the stream and uses an ingress replication (IR) tunnel to forward the
stream to SL-3, an RNVE leaf device that hosts a TOR device with a subscribed receiver.
5. The destination SL devices forward or locally route the traffic toward their subscribed receivers.
For more details on AR device roles, how AR works, and other use cases besides the ones in this
example, see Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks.
To configure AR in this example:
1. Configure the AR replicator role on the S-ARR devices.
a. Configure the device loopback interface lo0 with a secondary IP address specifically for AR
functions. The AR replicator advertises this IP address to the network in EVPN Type 3 AR tunnel
routes.
We include the primary loopback address configuration statements here as well so you can more
easily identify each S-ARR device.
S-ARR-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.1/32 primary
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.1/32 preferred
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 10.1.1.1/32
S-ARR-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.2/32 primary
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 192.168.2.2/32 preferred
set interfaces lo0 unit 0 family inet address 10.2.1.1/32
b. Configure the AR replicator role on S-ARR-1 and S-ARR-2 in the MAC-VRF instance, using the
secondary AR loopback interface you configured in the previous step.

580
S-ARR-1:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator inet 10.1.1.1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator vxlan-
encapsulation-source-ip ingress-replication-ip
S-ARR-2:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator inet 10.2.1.1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn assisted-replication replicator vxlan-
encapsulation-source-ip ingress-replication-ip
c. On AR replicator devices in standalone mode, you must also configure the common OISM
elements that you configure on the OISM SL and BL devices. You configure those elements in
earlier steps in this example. See:
• "Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance" on page 559
• "Configure the Tenant VRF Instances for IGMPv2 and IGMPv3 Multicast Receivers" on page
564
You don't need to configure any of the PIM or external multicast elements specific to OISM BL or
SL devices.
2. Configure the AR leaf role in the MAC-VRF instance on the OISM BL devices and all SL devices
except the RNVE device in this example, SL-3.
Include the replicator-activation-delay option as shown. By default, AR leaf devices delay 10 seconds
after receiving an AR replicator advertisement before starting to send traffic to that AR replicator
device. In a scaled environment, we recommend you make the delay longer to ensure the AR
replicator devices have fully learned the current EVPN state from the network. The delay also helps
in cases when an AR replicator goes down and comes up again.
BL-1, BL-2, SL-1, SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn assisted-replication leaf replicator-activation-
delay 30
We skip this configuration on SL-3, which acts as a device that doesn’t support AR.

581
Verify OISM and AR Configuration and Operation
You can use the show commands in the following steps to verify OISM and AR configuration and
operation.
1. Verify the underlay and overlay configurations and confirm the fabric has established the BGP state
and traffic paths among the devices.
SL-1 (device lo0: 192.168.0.1):
user@SL-1> show bgp summary
Threading mode: BGP I/O
Default eBGP mode: advertise - accept, receive - accept
Groups: 2 Peers: 4 Down peers: 0
Table Tot Paths Act Paths Suppressed History Damp State Pending
bgp.evpn.0
75669 41585 0 0 0 0
inet.0
24 20 0 0 0 0
Peer AS InPkt OutPkt OutQ Flaps Last Up/Dwn State|#Active/
Received/Accepted/Damped...
172.16.1.0 4200000021 1201 1227 0 0 9:07:50 Establ
inet.0: 10/12/12/0
172.16.3.0 4200000022 1208 1226 0 0 9:11:20 Establ
inet.0: 10/12/12/0
192.168.2.1 4210000001 32260 3854 0 0 9:07:31 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 37834/37834/37834/0
MACVRF-1.evpn.0: 37126/37126/37126/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 708/708/708/0
192.168.2.2 4210000001 34838 3862 0 0 9:11:11 Establ
bgp.evpn.0: 3751/37835/37835/0
MACVRF-1.evpn.0: 3751/37127/37127/0
default-switch.evpn.0: 0/0/0/0
__default_evpn__.evpn.0: 0/708/708/0
Run this command on each SL, BL, and S-ARR device in the fabric.
2. Verify the configured VTEPs in the MAC-VRF EVPN instance on the SL, BL, and S-ARR devices.
You can use the show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote command, or its alias, the show mac-
vrf forwarding vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote command (where supported).
For example:

582
SL-1:
user@SL-1> show ethernet-switching vxlan-tunnel-end-point remote summary instance MACVRF-1
Logical System Name Id SVTEP-IP IFL L3-Idx SVTEP-Mode ELP-SVTEP-IP
<default> 0 192.168.0.1 lo0.0 0
RVTEP-IP L2-RTT IFL-Idx Interface NH-Id RVTEP-Mode ELP-IP
Flags
10.2.1.1 MACVRF-1 672178185 vtep-133.32777 30050 Replicator
Extended-MH
10.1.1.1 MACVRF-1 672178188 vtep-133.32780 14959 Replicator
Extended-MH
192.168.2.1 MACVRF-1 672178189 vtep-133.32781 14960 RNVE
192.168.2.2 MACVRF-1 672178184 vtep-133.32776 14008 RNVE
192.168.5.1 MACVRF-1 672178187 vtep-133.32779 14460 Leaf
192.168.5.2 MACVRF-1 672178190 vtep-133.32782 17439 Leaf
192.168.0.2 MACVRF-1 672178181 vtep-133.32773 26415 Leaf
192.168.0.3 MACVRF-1 672178180 vtep-133.32772 23288 RNVE
192.168.0.4 MACVRF-1 672178183 vtep-133.32775 14004 Leaf
192.168.0.5 MACVRF-1 672178186 vtep-133.32778 14410 Leaf
192.168.0.6 MACVRF-1 672178179 vtep-133.32771 22908 Leaf
NOTE: You also see the AR role of the device on each remote VTEP in the RVTEP-
Mode column of the output from this command, as follows
• The primary loopback IP address on an AR replicator device is the ingress
replication (IR) IP address, which the device uses to forward traffic to RNVE
devices. That’s why you see “RNVE” as the role corresponding to the S-ARR
device primary loopback addresses in the RVTEP-IP column.
• The secondary loopback IP address you assign for the AR replicator role is the AR
IP address. You see “Replicator” as the role for those RVTEP-IP addresses in this
output.
• The AR leaf devices and the RNVE device only use IR tunnels, so this command
displays “Leaf” or “RNVE” role corresponding to the primary loopback IP address
for those devices in the RVTEP-IP column.
Run this command on each SL, BL, and S-ARR device in the fabric.

583
3. Verify the SL device to TOR device links. These links are ae3 on each SL device. Also, SL-4 and SL-5
are multihoming peers for both TOR-3 and TOR-4, and use ae5 for those additional TOR device
links. (See Figure 93 on page 556.)
For example:
SL-1 to TOR-1:
user@SL-1> show lacp interfaces ae3
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/6:0 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/6:0 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/6:0 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/6:0 Not-Running NA NA NA
user@SL-1> show lldp neighbors | grep ae3
xe-0/0/6:0 ae3 10:0e:7e:af:14:c0 xe-0/0/22:0
tor-1.testdomain.net
SL-2 to TOR-1:
user@SL-2> show lacp interfaces ae3
Aggregated interface: ae3
LACP state: Role Exp Def Dist Col Syn Aggr Timeout Activity
xe-0/0/12 Actor No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
xe-0/0/12 Partner No No Yes Yes Yes Yes Fast Active
LACP protocol: Receive State Transmit State Mux State
xe-0/0/12 Current Fast periodic Collecting distributing
LACP hold-timer: Up, Enabled, Interval: 300 sec
Status Re-Start Cnt TTE(sec) Hold Start
xe-0/0/12 Not-Running NA NA NA
user@SL-2> show lldp neighbors | grep ae3

584
xe-0/0/12 ae3 10:0e:7e:af:14:c0 xe-0/0/13:3
tor-1.testdomain.net
Repeat this command on each SL device for interface ae3, and on SL-4 and SL-5, repeat this
command for ae5.
4. Verify external L3 interface OSPF neighbor reachability on the BL devices for each tenant VRF
instance.
BL-1:
user@BL-1> show interfaces terse | grep ae3.0
ae3.0 up up inet 172.30.0.1/31
user@BL-1> show interfaces terse | grep ae3.100
ae3.100 up up inet 172.30.100.1/31
user@BL-1> show ospf neighbor instance VRF-1
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.30.0.0 ae3.0 Full 172.22.2.1 128 31
172.27.209.242 irb.2001 Full 10.9.9.1 128 38
user@BL-1> show ospf neighbor instance VRF-101
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.30.100.0 ae3.100 Full 172.22.102.1 128 36
172.28.53.242 irb.2101 Full 10.9.9.101 128 35
BL-2:
user@BL-2> show interfaces terse | grep ae3.0
xe-0/0/14:0.0 up up aenet --> ae3.0
ae3.0 up up inet 172.31.0.1/31
user@BL-2> show interfaces terse | grep ae3.100
xe-0/0/14:0.100 up up aenet --> ae3.100
ae3.100 up up inet 172.31.100.1/31
user@BL-2> show ospf neighbor instance VRF-1
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.31.0.0 ae3.0 Full 172.22.2.1 128 34
172.27.209.241 irb.2001 Full 10.8.8.1 128 35
user@BL-2> show ospf neighbor instance VRF-101

585
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.31.100.0 ae3.100 Full 172.22.102.1 128 33
172.28.53.241 irb.2101 Full 10.8.8.101 128 31
5. Verify the PIM router and RP device connections from the external PIM router and RP device to the
BL devices.
user@pim-gw-rp> show interfaces terse | grep ae1.0
xe-1/3/0.0 up up aenet --> ae1.0
ae1.0 up up inet 172.30.0.0/31
user@pim-gw-rp> show interfaces terse | grep ae1.100
xe-1/3/0.100 up up aenet --> ae1.100
ae1.100 up up inet 172.30.100.0/31
user@pim-gw-rp> show interfaces terse | grep ae2.0
xe-2/1/2.0 up up aenet --> ae2.0
ae2.0 up up inet 172.31.0.0/31
user@pim-gw-rp> show interfaces terse | grep ae2.100
xe-2/1/2.100 up up aenet --> ae2.100
ae2.100 up up inet 172.30.100.0/31
user@pim-gw-rp> show lldp neighbors
Local Interface Parent Interface Chassis Id Port info System Name
xe-1/3/0 ae1 68:22:8e:e3:a6:af 713
BL-1.testdomain.net
xe-2/1/2 ae2 9c:8a:cb:a9:68:a1 1582
BL-2.testdomain.net
user@pim-gw-rp> show ospf neighbor instance PIM-GW-VR-1
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.30.0.1 ae1.0 Full 10.8.8.1 128 34
172.31.0.1 ae2.0 Full 10.9.9.1 128 36
user@pim-gw-rp> show ospf neighbor instance PIM-GW-VR-101
Address Interface State ID Pri Dead
172.30.100.1 ae1.100 Full 10.8.8.101 128 36
172.30.100.1 ae2.100 Full 10.9.9.101 128 31

586
6. Verify AR leaf overlay tunnel load balancing to the available AR replicator devices.
The AR leaf devices detect the advertised AR replicator devices and load-balance among them
using different methods based on the leaf device platform. (See AR Leaf Device Load Balancing
with Multiple Replicators for details.)
In this example, SL-1 is a QFX5120 switch, so as an AR leaf device, SL-1 load balances by assigning
an AR replicator device to each VLAN or VNI.
Run the show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops instance mac-vrf-instance command
on the AR leaf devices to see the overlay tunnels and load-balancing next hops to the available AR
replicators. On SL devices that designate AR replicators by VNI, the output of this command tags
the AR replicator as the (Designated Node). The output doesn’t include this tag on AR leaf devices that
load balance based on active traffic flow.
For example, the output here for SL-1 shows that the device assigned:
• S-ARR-1 as the designated replicator for configured VNIs 110001 and 110003 (which
corresponds to VLAN-1 and VLAN-3, respectively)
• S-ARR-2 as the designated replicator for configured VNI 110002 and 110004 (which
correspond to VLAN-2 and VLAN-4, respectively)
SL-1:
user@SL-1> show evpn multicast-snooping assisted-replication next-hops instance MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
AR Role: AR Leaf
VN Identifier: 110001
Load Balance Nexthop Index: 528073
Load balance to:
Nexthop Index Interface AR IP
14959 vtep.32780 10.1.1.1 (Designated Node)
30050 vtep.32777 10.2.1.1
VN Identifier: 110002
Load Balance Nexthop Index: 528072
Load balance to:
Nexthop Index Interface AR IP
14959 vtep.32780 10.1.1.1
30050 vtep.32777 10.2.1.1 (Designated Node)

587
VN Identifier: 110003
Load Balance Nexthop Index: 528071
Load balance to:
Nexthop Index Interface AR IP
14959 vtep.32780 10.1.1.1 (Designated Node)
30050 vtep.32777 10.2.1.1
VN Identifier: 110004
Load Balance Nexthop Index: 528070
Load balance to:
Nexthop Index Interface AR IP
14959 vtep.32780 10.1.1.1
30050 vtep.32777 10.2.1.1 (Designated Node)
Run this command on the SL and BL devices in the fabric.
7. Verify PIM join and multicast group status for a multicast stream from a source inside the fabric
behind TOR-1. TOR-1 is multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2 (see Figure 91 on page 548). Receivers on
the TOR devices connected to the other SL devices subscribe to multicast groups hosted by this
source as listed in Table 19 on page 551. The stream we verify here is intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN
traffic with source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs VLAN-2, VLAN-3, and VLAN-4.
With AR enabled, the ingress SL device forwards the multicast source traffic to the designated AR
replicator. See Figure 94 on page 578. The AR replicator forwards copies to the SL devices with
subscribed receivers on the source VLAN, VLAN-1. Then the SL devices forward the traffic toward
the receivers on VLAN-1.
In this step, you run the commands only for VRF-1, which is the tenant VRF that hosts the internal
multicast source traffic in this example. Also, this stream is an IGMPv3 stream with SSM reports, so
you see only (S,G) multicast routes. In this case, the output shows the source behind TOR-1 has
source IP address 10.0.1.12.
In this step, we show running verification commands for:
• PIM join status on SL-1 and SL-2 for the source on multihomed device TOR-1.
The show pim join summary output shows that the SL devices serving TOR-1 saw joins for a total of
6 multicast groups.
• IGMP snooping multicast group membership status for the receiver behind device TOR-4, which
is multihomed to SL-4 and SL-5.
The show igmp snooping membership output shows the multicast group joins from the receiver behind
TOR-4. TOR-4 hashes the join messages to either of the multihoming peer SL devices. The
number of joins on both devices together (3 on each device) equals the total number of joins in
the show pim join summary output (6).

588
• PIM join status summary and details on SL-4 and SL-5 for the receiver behind multihomed
device TOR-4.
When the show pim join extensive output on SL-4 and SL-5 show the same upstream and
downstream IRB interface, the device is bridging the multicast stream within the same VLAN.
When the downstream IRB interfaces are different from the upstream IRB interface, the device
is routing the multicast stream between VLANs.
• The designated forwarder among multihoming peers SL-4 and SL-5 that the device elected to
forward the traffic to the receiver behind multihomed TOR-4.
We run the show evpn instance MACVRF-1 designated-forwarder esi command for the ESI you
configured on the ae5 interfaces from SL-4 and SL-5 to TOR-4.
SL-1: Internal source—PIM join status for VRF-1:
user@SL-1> show pim join summary instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(s,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
SL-2: Internal source—PIM join status for VRF-1:
user@SL-1> show pim join summary instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
SL-4: Receiver—Multicast group membership status on source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs
VLAN-1 through VLAN-4::
user@SL-4> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-1 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
VLAN-1 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-1
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3

589
Group: 233.252.0.21
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 210
Last reported by: 10.0.1.162
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.22
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 210
Last reported by: 10.0.1.162
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.23
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 210
Last reported by: 10.0.1.162
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
user@SL-4> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-2 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-2
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 0
user@SL-4> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-3 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-3
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12

590
Source timeout: 245
Last reported by: 10.0.3.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 245
Last reported by: 10.0.3.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 245
Last reported by: 10.0.3.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 0
user@SL-4> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-4 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-4
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 255
Last reported by: 10.0.4.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 255
Last reported by: 10.0.4.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 255
Last reported by: 10.0.4.183

591
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 0
SL-5: Receiver—Multicast group membership status on source VLAN VLAN-1 and receiver VLANs
VLAN-1 through VLAN-4:
user@SL-5> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-1 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-1
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.21
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 159
Last reported by: 10.0.1.161
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.22
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 159
Last reported by: 10.0.1.161
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.23
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 159
Last reported by: 10.0.1.161
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-5> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-2 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-2

592
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 235
Last reported by: 10.0.2.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 235
Last reported by: 10.0.2.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 235
Last reported by: 10.0.2.183
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 179
Last reported by: 10.0.2.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 179
Last reported by: 10.0.2.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 179
Last reported by: 10.0.2.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-5> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-3 virtual-switch MACVRF-1

593
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-3
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 182
Last reported by: 10.0.3.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 182
Last reported by: 10.0.3.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 182
Last reported by: 10.0.3.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-5> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-4 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-4
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.121
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 189
Last reported by: 10.0.4.173

594
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.122
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 189
Last reported by: 10.0.4.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.123
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 189
Last reported by: 10.0.4.173
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
SL-4: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-1:
user@SL-4> show pim join summary instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(s,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
user@SL-4> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.21
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 340
Uptime: 03:20:36
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:20:36 Time since last Join: 03:20:26
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1

595
.
.
.
Group: 233.252.0.121
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 03:20:36
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:20:35 Time since last Join: 03:19:16
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:20:36 Time since last Join: 03:20:26
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:20:35 Time since last Join: 03:20:26
Number of downstream interfaces: 3
Number of downstream neighbors: 3
.
.
.
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
SL-5: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-1:
user@SL-5> show pim join summary instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(s,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
user@SL-5> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard

596
Group: 233.252.0.21
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 353
Uptime: 03:16:52
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.248 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:16:52 Time since last Join: 03:16:43
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
.
.
.
Group: 233.252.0.121
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 03:16:52
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.248 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:16:52 Time since last Join: 03:16:43
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.248 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:16:04 Time since last Join: 03:16:04
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.248 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 03:16:02 Time since last Join: 03:16:02
Number of downstream interfaces: 3
Number of downstream neighbors: 3
.
.
.

597
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
SL-4: Check the designated forwarder to the receiver behind TOR-4:
Recall that in the SL device configuration, we assign ae5 as the link from both SL-4 and SL5 to
TOR-4. We set ESI 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05 on those links. The following output shows that
SL-4 is not the designated forwarder for this ESI.
user@SL-4> show interfaces terse | grep lo0
lo0 up up
lo0.0 up up inet 192.168.0.4 --> 0/0
user@SL-4> show evpn instance MACVRF-1 designated-forwarder esi
00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05
Instance: MACVRF-1
Number of ethernet segments: 630
ESI: 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05
Designated forwarder: 192.168.0.5
SL-5: Check the designated forwarder to the receiver behind TOR-4:
The following output confirms that SL-5 (lo0.0 192.168.0.5) is the designated forwarder for ESI
00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05.
user@SL-5> show interfaces terse | grep lo0
lo0 up up
lo0.0 up up inet 192.168.0.5 --> 0/0
user@SL-5> show evpn instance MACVRF-1 designated-forwarder esi
00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05
Instance: MACVRF-1
Number of ethernet segments: 630
ESI: 00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05
Designated forwarder: 192.168.0.5
8. Verify PIM join and multicast group status for a multicast stream from a source outside the fabric in
the external PIM domain. See Figure 91 on page 548. Receivers behind the TOR devices connected
to the SL devices subscribe to multicast groups hosted by this source as listed in Table 19 on page
551. The ingress BL device routes the external source traffic from the L3 interface connection to
the SBD VLAN (VLAN-2101 in this case).

598
With AR enabled, the BL device forwards the traffic on the SBD VLAN to an AR replicator (either
the designated AR replicator or an AR replicator based on traffic load-balancing, depending on the
BL device platform). See Figure 94 on page 578. The AR replicator forwards copies on the SBD to
the SL devices with subscribed receivers. Then the SL devices forward or locally route the traffic
toward the receivers on the tenant VLANs.
In this step, you run the commands only for VRF-101, which is the tenant VRF that hosts external
multicast source traffic in this example. Also, this stream is an IGMPv2 stream with ASM reports, so
you see only (*,G) multicast routes.
In this step, you run verification commands for:
• PIM join status on BL-1 and BL-2 as the ingress devices for the external multicast source.
• IGMP snooping multicast group membership status for a receiver behind device TOR-1, which is
multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2.
• PIM join status on SL-1 and SL-2 for the receiver on multihomed device TOR-1.
BL-1: Ingress BL device for external source—PIM join status for VRF-101:
user@BL-1> show pim join summary instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(*,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
user@BL-1> show pim join extensive instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: ae3.100
Upstream neighbor: 172.30.100.0
Upstream state: None
Uptime: 00:17:02
Downstream neighbors:

599
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.241 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:17:02 Time since last Join: 00:17:02
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
.
.
.
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: ae3.100
Upstream neighbor: 172.30.100.0
Upstream state: None
Uptime: 00:17:03
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.241 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:17:03 Time since last Join: 00:17:03
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
.
.
.
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
BL-2: Ingress BL device for external source—PIM join status for VRF-101:
user@BL-2> show pim join summary instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(*,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
user@BL-2> show pim join extensive instance VRF-101

600
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: ae3.100
Upstream neighbor: 172.31.100.0
Upstream state: Join to RP
Uptime: 01:02:35
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 01:02:35 Time since last Join: 01:02:35
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
.
.
.
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: ae3.100
Upstream neighbor: 172.31.100.0
Upstream state: Join to RP
Uptime: 01:02:39
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.242 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 01:02:39 Time since last Join: 01:02:39
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
.
.
.
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard

601
SL-1: Receiver—Multicast group membership status for VLANs associated with VRF-101
(VLAN-401 through VLAN-404):
user@SL-1> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-401 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-401
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 2
Group: 233.252.0.1
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.145.18
Group timeout: 213 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.3
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.145.18
Group timeout: 206 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-1> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-402 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-402
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 1
Group: 233.252.0.103
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.146.18
Group timeout: 205 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-1> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-403 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-403
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 2
Group: 233.252.0.102

602
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.147.18
Group timeout: 197 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.103
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.147.18
Group timeout: 201 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-1> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-404 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-404
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 2
Group: 233.252.0.101
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.148.18
Group timeout: 187 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.102
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.148.18
Group timeout: 192 Type: Dynamic
SL-2: Receiver—Multicast group membership status for VLANs associated with VRF-101
(VLAN-401 through VLAN-404):
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-401 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-401
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 1
Group: 233.252.0.2
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0

603
Last reported by: 10.1.145.18
Group timeout: 230 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-402 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan:VLAN-402
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 2
Group: 233.252.0.101
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.146.18
Group timeout: 222 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.102
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.146.18
Group timeout: 229 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-403 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-403
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 1
Group: 233.252.0.101
Group mode: Exclude
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.147.18
Group timeout: 223 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-404 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-404
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 1
Group: 233.252.0.103
Group mode: Exclude

604
Source: 0.0.0.0
Last reported by: 10.1.148.18
Group timeout: 219 Type: Dynamic
SL-1: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-101:
user@SL-1> show pim join summary instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(*,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
user@SL-1> show pim join extensive instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 04:33:22
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.401
10.1.145.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:33:22 Time since last Join: 04:33:12
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:29:18 Time since last Join: 04:29:09
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2
.
.
.

605
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 04:33:22
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.402
10.1.146.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:26:44 Time since last Join: 04:26:44
Interface: irb.403
10.1.147.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:26:44 Time since last Join: 04:26:44
Interface: irb.404
10.1.148.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:33:22 Time since last Join: 04:33:12
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.243 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:29:18 Time since last Join: 04:29:09
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
.
.
.
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
SL-2: Receiver—PIM join status for VRF-101:
user@SL-2> show pim join summary instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
Route type Route count
(*,g) 6
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6

606
user@SL-2> show pim join extensive instance VRF-101
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 04:29:35
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:29:35 Time since last Join: 04:29:35
Interface: irb.401
10.1.145.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:29:35 Time since last Join: 04:29:35
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2
.
.
.
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: *
RP: 172.22.102.1
Flags: sparse,rptree,wildcard
Upstream interface: Local
Upstream neighbor: Local
Upstream state: Local RP
Uptime: 04:35:36
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2101
172.28.53.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:31:48 Time since last Join: 04:31:40
Interface: irb.404
10.1.148.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:29:35 Time since last Join: 04:29:35
Interface: irb.403
10.1.147.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:35:36 Time since last Join: 04:35:27

607
Interface: irb.402
10.1.146.244 State: Join Flags: SRW Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 04:35:31 Time since last Join: 04:35:27
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
.
.
.
Instance: PIM.VRF-101 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
9. Verify the OISM devices use EVPN Type 6 (SMET) routes to optimize multicast traffic flow in the
EVPN core. View the Type 6 routes in the EVPN routing tables (bgp.evpn.0 and MACVRF-1.evpn.0)
on OISM leaf devices and the spine devices that act as AR replicators. Type 6 routes are advertised
only on the SBD VLAN.
For example, here we view Type 6 routes for interested receivers behind TOR-4, which is
multihomed to peer SL devices SL-4 and SL-5. We show results for parameters of the featured
multicast stream in Table 19 on page 551 for tenant VRF-1, with IGMPv3 traffic between an
internal source and internal receivers:
• VLANs: VLAN-1 through VLAN-4, which map to VNIs 110001 through 110004
• SBD VLAN: VLAN-2001, which maps to VNI 992001
• Internal source: Behind SL-1 and SL-2 on TOR-1, with internal IP address 10.0.1.12
• Multicast groups: 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123
These commands show:
• S-ARR-1 and SL-ARR-2 received Type 6 routes from SL-4 and SL-5 on the SBD (VLAN-2001 VNI
992001).
• SL-4 (lo0: 192.168.0.4) and SL-5 (lo0: 192.168.0.5) received joins from a receiver behind
multihomed TOR-4 for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123.
• Source (10.0.1.12) and Group information, because the receivers send IGMPv3 joins.
For S-ARR-1 — Type 6 routes from SL-4 and SL-5:
S-ARR-1 links to SL-4 on ae4 (172.16.7.0/31).
user@S-ARR-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 6:192.168.0.4* | find 233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.4:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 03:59:03, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4

608
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
6:192.168.0.4:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 03:59:03, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
6:192.168.0.4:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 03:59:03, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
user@S-ARR-1> show route table MACVR-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 6:192.168.0.4* | find
233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 04:04:56, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 04:04:56, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.4/520
*[BGP/170] 04:04:56, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.4
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.1 via ae4.0
S-ARR-1 links to SL-5 on ae5 (172.16.8.0/31):
user@S-ARR-1> show route table bgp.evpn.0 match-prefix 6:192.168.0.5* | find 233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.5:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:03:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:03:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::992001::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:03:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0

609
user@S-ARR-1> show route table MACVR-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 6:192.168.0.5* | find
233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:06:52, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:06:52, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 04:06:52, localpref 100, from 192.168.0.5
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.8.1 via ae5.0
Run the same commands on S-ARR-2 to see similar output on that device. S-ARR-2 links to SL-4 on
ae4 (172.16.9.0/31) and SL-5 on ae5 (172.16.10.0/31).
SL-4 — Locally generated Type 6 routes, and Type 6 routes from other SL devices by way of S-
ARR-1 and S-ARR-2:
user@SL-4> show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 6*192.168.0.4 | find 233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.4/520
*[EVPN/170] 03:38:48
Indirect
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.4/520
*[EVPN/170] 03:38:48
Indirect
6:192.168.0.4:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.4/520
*[EVPN/170] 03:38:48
Indirect
user@SL-4> show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 6*192.168.0.5 | find 233.252.0.121
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0

610
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
6:192.168.0.5:33301::994002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.5/520
*[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:42:51, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
> to 172.16.7.0 via ae1.0
to 172.16.9.0 via ae2.0
You see similar Type 6 routes as remote routes from the other SL devices, which also serve
receivers for the same groups in the same tenant VRF for the internal source on TOR-1
(multihomed to SL-1 and SL-2).
Run these commands on SL-5 to see the Type 6 routes on that device. Match on prefix
6:192.168.0.5 to see the locally generated Type 6 routes for SL-5. Match on other device prefixes
(such as 6*192.168.0.4 for SL-4) to see the remotely generated Type 6 routes.
10. Verify the peer devices for multihoming ESs use EVPN Type 7 routes to synchronize multicast join
states.
Use the show route table __default_evpn__.evpn.0 command to see Type 7 route prefixes.
For example, here we show Type 7 routes generated by peer SL devices SL-4 and SL-5 for the
receiver behind TOR-4, with an internal source and IGMPv3 joins (see the parameters in Table 19
on page 551 for VRF-1). TOR-4 hashes join messages from its receivers to either SL-4 or SL-5. The
devices each advertise Type 7 routes to their multihoming peers for the joins they receive, to
synchronize the join status among them.
These commands show:
• SL-5 locally generated Type 7 routes to advertise to SL-4
• SL-5 received Type 7 route advertisements from SL-4 for joins that TOR-4 hashed to SL-4
• OISM devices advertise Type 7 and Type 8 routes on the OISM revenue VLANs, not the SBD.

611
In this case, receivers joined groups on VLAN-2 (VNI 110002, hashed to SL-5) and VLAN-3
(VNI-110003, hashed to SL-4).
Note that the ESI we configured for the SL-4 and SL-5 links to TOR-4 is
00:00:00:ff:00:04:00:01:00:05, which you see in the Type 7 route entry in the routing table.
SL-5 — Locally generated Type 7 routes to advertise to SL-4:
This output shows that SL-5 locally generated three Type 7 routes for joins on VLAN-2 (VNI
110002) for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123. .
user@SL-5> show route table __default_evpn__.evpn.0 match-prefix 7*192.168.0.5 | find
233.252.0.121
7:192.168.0.5:33301::ff000400010005::110002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.5/600
*[EVPN/170] 03:56:17
Indirect
7:192.168.0.5:33301::ff000400010005::110002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.5/600
*[EVPN/170] 03:56:17
Indirect
7:192.168.0.5:33301::ff000400010005::110002::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.5/600
*[EVPN/170] 03:56:17
Indirect
SL-5 — Type 7 routes from SL-4:
This output shows that SL-5 received three Type 7 route advertisements from SL-4 for joins on
VLAN-3 (VNI 110003) for multicast groups 233.252.0.121 through 233.252.0.123.
user@SL-5> show route table __default_evpn__.evpn.0 match-prefix 7*192.168.0.4 | find
233.252.0.121
7:192.168.0.4:33301::ff000400010005::110003::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.121::192.168.0.4/600
*[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0

612
7:192.168.0.4:33301::ff000400010005::110003::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.122::192.168.0.4/600
*[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0
7:192.168.0.4:33301::ff000400010005::110003::10.0.1.12::233.252.0.123::192.168.0.4/600
*[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.1
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0
[BGP/170] 03:54:39, localpref 100, from 192.168.2.2
AS path: I, validation-state: unverified
to 172.16.8.0 via ae1.0
> to 172.16.10.0 via ae2.0
Run these commands on SL-4 to see Type 7 routes on that device. Match on prefix 7:192.168.0.5
to see the Type 7 routes from its multihoming peer, SL-5. Match on prefix 7:192.168.0.4 to see the
locally generated Type 7 routes that SL-4 advertises to SL-5.
You can use these commands to see Type 7 routes on the other multihoming peer SL device pairs.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast for ERB Overlay Networks | 39
Optimized Intersubnet Multicast in EVPN Networks
Assisted Replication Multicast Optimization in EVPN Networks

613
Enhanced Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM)
Implementation
SUMMARY IN THIS SECTION
Configure enhanced optimized intersubnet multicast Regular OISM and Enhanced OISM
(OISM) in a scaled EVPN-VXLAN edge-routed Differences | 614
bridging (ERB) overlay fabric when the OISM leaf
Enhanced OISM Use Cases Overview | 615
devices host a large number of diverse revenue
VLANs. Configure and Verify the EBGP Underlay and
EBGP Overlay Peering | 618
Configure the EVPN MAC-VRF Instance and
Enable Enhanced OISM | 624
Configure Platform-specific
Parameters | 625
Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal
Receivers (Including Multihoming Peer) with
IGMPv3—SSM | 626
Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and
Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver
and IGMPv3—SSM | 629
Verify Use Case#1: Internal Source and
Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver
and IGMPv3—SSM | 642
Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and
External Receivers with IGMPv2—
ASM | 675
Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to
Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2
—ASM | 678
Verify Use Case #2: Internal Source to
Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2
—ASM | 686
Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal
Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 693

614
Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and
Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 696
Verify Use Case #3: Internal Source and
Receivers with MLDv2—SSM | 706
In EVPN-VXLAN edge-routed bridging (ERB) overlay fabric designs, the leaf devices forward traffic
within tenant VLANs and route traffic between tenant VLANs. To support efficient multicast traffic flows
in scaled ERB overlay fabrics, we support optimized intersubnet multicast (OISM) with both internal and
external multicast sources and receivers.
Regular OISM and Enhanced OISM Differences
We refer to our original OISM implementation as regular OISM. Regular OISM uses a symmetric bridge
domains OISM model that requires you to configure all revenue VLANs (the tenant VLANs) in the
network on all OISM leaf devices. See "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted
Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546 in this guide for an example of a
regular OISM configuration. Due to the symmetric VLANs configuration requirement, we also call
regular OISM the "bridge domains everywhere" (BDE) version of OISM.
Enhanced OISM uses an asymmetric bridge domains OISM model in which you don't need to configure
all revenue VLANs in the network on all OISM devices. On each leaf device that is not a multihoming
peer with another leaf device, you can configure only the revenue VLANs that device hosts. However,
the design still requires you to configure matching revenue VLANs on leaf devices that are multihoming
peers. Enhanced OISM has some operational differences from regular OISM that support the
asymmetric bridge domains model, but most of the configuration elements you need to set up are the
same. Because you can configure the VLANs asymmetrically, we also call enhanced OISM the "bridge
domains not everywhere" (BDNE) version of OISM.
NOTE: Multihoming peer leaf devices are leaf devices that share an Ethernet segment
(ES) for an attached multihomed client host, customer edge (CE) device, or top-of-rack
(TOR) device.
The enhanced OISM asymmetric bridge domain model enables OISM to scale well when your network
has leaf devices that host a large number of diverse revenue VLANs.
This example shows enhanced OISM configuration elements and verification steps tested in our scaled
reference environment. We describe a few use cases here that highlight the main differences between
regular OISM mode and enhanced OISM mode.

615
NOTE: Starting in Junos OS Release 24.4R1, we have qualified enhanced OISM at scale
in environments that also include configurations for the following features:
• BGP unnumbered peering with an IPv6 underlay (also called BGP autodiscovery or
BGP auto-peering).
See "BGP Unnumbered IPv6 Underlay in an EVPN-VXLAN Data Center" on page 123.
• Non-revertive preference-based designated forwarder (DF) election.
See Preference-Based DF Election.
We don't include configuration instructions for those features in the enhanced OISM use
cases described here.
Enhanced OISM Use Cases Overview
IN THIS SECTION
Configuration Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode | 616
Operational Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode | 617
The enhanced OISM use cases included in this example don't include full device configurations. Instead,
we focus on the sections of the configuration for the test environment differences and the enhanced
OISM operational differences compared to the regular OISM example in "Optimized Intersubnet
Multicast (OISM) with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546, such
as:
• Using EBGP for the overlay peering in the EVPN core network (instead of IBGP, which the regular
OISM example configuration environment uses for the overlay peering).
• Configuring the same set of revenue VLANs only on multihoming peer leaf devices, and configuring
different sets of revenue VLANs on the other OISM leaf devices.
• Configuring the VRF instances and IRB interfaces on leaf devices that host different sets of revenue
VLANs.

616
• Enabling IPv6 multicast with MLDv1 any-source multicast (ASM) or MLDv2 source-specific multicast
(SSM), which is supported with regular OISM but wasn't included in the regular OISM configuration
example.
• Verifying behaviors specific to enhanced OISM operation (see "Operational Differences in Enhanced
OISM Mode" on page 617).
Refer to the regular OISM example in "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM) with Assisted
Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546 for complete details on configuring all
of the required elements that are common for both regular OISM and enhanced OISM, such as:
• EVPN fabric interfaces
• Underlay and overlay peering (except here we cover EBGP for the overlay peering)
• EVPN MAC-VRF instances
• Multicast protocols—IGMP, IGMP snooping, MLD, MLD snooping, Protocol Independent Multicast
(PIM)
• The SBD, the revenue VLANs, and their corresponding IRB interfaces
• The tenant VRF instances
• OISM device roles—Server leaf, or border leaf as a PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) for exchanging
multicast traffic from and to external sources and external receivers
• Interfaces to and from an external PIM domain
Configuration Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode
You configure enhanced OISM in almost the same way that you configure regular OISM, using the same
statements to set up the OISM environment. The only differences are:
• To enable enhanced mode instead of regular mode, configure the enhanced-oism option at the [edit
forwarding-options multicast-replication evpn irb] hierarchy level instead of configuring the oism option
that enables regular OISM.
• Configure the virtual routing and forwarding (VRF) instances on the OISM leaf devices with the
revenue VLANs each device hosts. On each set of multihoming peer leaf devices, however, be sure to
configure the same set of revenue VLANs, which should be a combination of all revenue VLANs used
by the receivers behind those peer leaf devices.
• Configure an OSPF area for server leaf device connectivity on the SBD. With enhanced OISM, the
server leaf devices need Layer 3 connectivity to route source traffic onto the SBD for east-west
traffic. As a result, in each tenant VRF, you configure an OSPF area on the server leaf devices with

617
the SBD IRB interface in active mode to form adjacencies on the SBD. You configure the other
interfaces in OSPF passive mode.
Note that on the OISM border leaf devices, for both regular and enhanced OISM, we require you to
configure an OSPF area in each tenant VRF with the following interfaces:
• The SBD IRB interface, in OSPF active mode
• The PEG interface that provides access to external multicast sources and receivers, in OSPF
active mode
• The remaining interfaces in the VRF, including the revenue VLAN IRB interfaces, in OSPF passive
mode
Operational Differences in Enhanced OISM Mode
The main operational differences in enhanced OISM mode operation compared to regular OISM mode
operation are:
• East-west traffic from internal sources—The ingress leaf devices forward east-west multicast source
traffic on the source VLAN only to their multihoming peer leaf devices with which they share at least
one Ethernet segment. For all other OISM leaf devices, the ingress leaf devices route the source
traffic only on the supplemental bridge domain (SBD), even if those other devices host the source
VLAN. Then each leaf device locally routes the traffic from the SBD to the destination VLAN.
Conversely, regular OISM sends multicast traffic from internal sources only on the source VLAN.
Then each leaf device locally forwards the traffic on the source VLAN or routes the traffic to the
destination VLAN. Only the border leaf devices route traffic on the SBD; the border leaf devices use
the SBD to support multicast flows from external sources to receivers inside the EVPN fabric.
NOTE: Enhanced OISM, like regular OISM, requires you to enable IGMP snooping or
MLD snooping, so the ingress leaf device for a multicast flow sends the traffic only
toward other OISM leaf devices with receivers that subscribed to (sent an IGMP or
MLD join for) that flow.
• North-south traffic from internal sources toward external receivers—The ingress leaf devices
generate EVPN Type 10 Selective P-router Multicast Service Interface (S-PMSI) Auto-Discovery (A-
D) routes for internal multicast (S,G) sources and groups.
The OISM border leaf devices act as PIM EVPN gateway (PEG) devices to connect to external
multicast sources and receivers. The PEG devices need to perform PIM source registration only for
multicast sources inside the EVPN network, so they look for and only do PIM registration for the
sources in advertised S-PMSI A-D routes.

618
• Enhanced OISM limitation for data packets with a time to live (TTL) of 1—Enhanced OISM routes
most multicast traffic on the SBD rather than on the source VLAN (even if the destination device
hosts the source VLAN). The TTL value on multicast data packets routed to the SBD and then to the
destination VLAN will have the packet TTL decremented more than once. As a result, packets with
TTL=1 won't reach the receivers. This limitation applies to traffic for any multicast groups other than
224.0.0.0/24 (for IPv4 multicast) and ff02::/16 (for IPv6 multicast).
For more details on the operational differences between regular OISM and enhanced OISM mode, see
the following pages in the EVPN User Guide:
• Overview of Enhanced OISM
• How Enhanced OISM Works
For full details on all OISM concepts, components, configuration and operation, see Optimized Inter-
Subnet Multicast in EVPN Networks.
Configure and Verify the EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering
IN THIS SECTION
Configure EBGP Underlay Peering | 621
Configure EBGP Overlay Peering | 621
Verify Underlay and Overlay Peering | 622
In the EVPN-VXLAN fabric configuration for regular OISM in "Optimized Intersubnet Multicast (OISM)
with Assisted Replication (AR) for Edge-Routed Bridging Overlays" on page 546, we configure the
underlay peering with EBGP and the overlay peering with IBGP. However, in this example for enhanced
OISM, the EVPN-VXLAN reference architecture test environment uses EBGP for both the underlay
peering and the overlay peering. See Figure 95 on page 619.
NOTE: We support both IPv4 and IPv6 multicast data traffic over the IPv4 underlay and
overlay in this configuration.

619
Figure 95: Enhanced OISM EVPN-VXLAN Fabric—EBGP Underlay and EBGP Overlay Peering
All of the OISM server leaf devices (SL-n) and border leaf devices (BL-n) peer with the lean spine devices
LS-1 and LS-2 in a full mesh spine and leaf configuration. See:
• Figure 95 on page 619 for the EVPN core interface names, device loopback addresses, and AS
numbers.
• Table 21 on page 620 for the corresponding subnet addresses for the underlay peering interfaces—
all interface addresses are .0 on the spine device side and .1 on the leaf device side.

620
Table 21: Enhanced OISM Interfaces for Spine and Leaf Peering
Leaf Device Spine Device Interface Underlay Subnet
SL-1 LS-1 ae1 172.16.1.0/31
192.168.0.1
LS-2 ae2 172.16.3.0/31
SL-2 LS-1 ae1 172.16.2.0/31
192.168.0.2
LS-2 ae2 172.16.4.0/31
SL-3 LS-1 ae1 172.16.5.0/31
192.168.0.3
LS-2 ae2 172.16.6.0/31
SL-4 LS-1 ae1 172.16.7.0/31
192.168.0.4
LS-2 ae2 172.16.9.0/31
SL-5 LS-1 ae1 172.16.8.0/31
192.168.0.5
LS-2 ae2 172.16.10.0/31
SL-6 LS-1 ae1 172.16.15.0/31
192.168.0.6
LS-2 ae2 172.16.16.0/31
BL-1 LS-1 ae1 172.16.11.0/31
192.168.5.1
LS-2 ae2 172.16.13.0/31
BL-2 LS-1 ae1 172.16.12.0/31
192.168.5.2

621
Table 21: Enhanced OISM Interfaces for Spine and Leaf Peering (Continued)
Leaf Device Spine Device Interface Underlay Subnet
LS-2 ae2 172.16.14.0/31
Configure EBGP Underlay Peering
The underlay configuration is similar to the regular OISM EBGP underlay configuration example, but the
enhanced OISM test environment has a few interface subnet differences. On each leaf device, configure
EBGP for the underlay peering with neighbor devices LS-1 and LS-2. For example:
SL-1:
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback from interface lo0.0
set policy-options policy-statement underlay-clos-export term loopback then accept
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp type external
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp export underlay-clos-export
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 1000
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.1.0 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group underlay-bgp neighbor 172.16.3.0 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp log-updown
set protocols bgp graceful-restart
Substitute the corresponding interface IP addresses and AS numbers when you configure the underlay
on the other OISM leaf devices.
Configure EBGP Overlay Peering
On each leaf device, configure the EBGP overlay peering with neighbor devices LS-1 and LS-2. For
example:
SL-1:
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp type external
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multihop no-nexthop-change

622
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-address 192.168.0.1
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp family evpn signaling
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp local-as 4200000011
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp multipath multiple-as
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection minimum-interval 4000
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection multiplier 3
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp bfd-liveness-detection session-mode automatic
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.2.1 peer-as 4200000021
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp neighbor 192.168.2.2 peer-as 4200000022
set protocols bgp group overlay-ebgp vpn-apply-export
Substitute the corresponding device loopback addresses and AS numbers when you configure the
overlay on the other OISM leaf devices.
Verify Underlay and Overlay Peering
To verify the EBGP underlay and overlay peering on SL-1 (lo0: 192.168.0.1, AS 4200000011), for
example, look for the following in the output from the show bgp neighbor command:
• Underlay peering on:
• LS-1: Subnet 172.16.1.0/31
• LS-2: Subnet 172.16.3.0/31
• Overlay peering with:
• LS-1: lo0 192.168.2.1, AS 4200000021
• LS-2: lo0 192.168.2.2, AS 4200000022
user@SL-1> show bgp neighbor | grep Peer
Peer: 172.16.1.0+179 AS 4200000021 Local: 172.16.1.1+58263 AS 4200000011
Options: <AuthKey GracefulRestart LogUpDown PeerAS Multipath LocalAS Refresh>
Peer ID: 192.168.2.1 Local ID: 192.168.0.1 Active Holdtime: 90
Keepalive Interval: 30 Group index: 0 Peer index: 0 SNMP index: 0
NLRI for restart configured on peer: inet-unicast
NLRI advertised by peer: inet-unicast
Peer supports Refresh capability (2)
Restart time configured on the peer: 120
Stale routes from peer are kept for: 300
Peer does not support Restarter functionality
Restart flag received from the peer: Notification
Peer does not support LLGR Restarter functionality

623
Peer supports 4 byte AS extension (peer-as 4200000021)
Peer does not support Addpath
Peer: 172.16.3.0+179 AS 4200000022 Local: 172.16.3.1+57766 AS 4200000011
Options: <AuthKey GracefulRestart LogUpDown PeerAS Multipath LocalAS Refresh>
Peer ID: 192.168.2.2 Local ID: 192.168.0.1 Active Holdtime: 90
Keepalive Interval: 30 Group index: 0 Peer index: 1 SNMP index: 1
NLRI for restart configured on peer: inet-unicast
NLRI advertised by peer: inet-unicast
Peer supports Refresh capability (2)
Restart time configured on the peer: 120
Stale routes from peer are kept for: 300
Peer does not support Restarter functionality
Restart flag received from the peer: Notification
Peer does not support LLGR Restarter functionality
Peer supports 4 byte AS extension (peer-as 4200000022)
Peer does not support Addpath
Peer: 192.168.2.1+51349 AS 4200000021 Local: 192.168.0.1+179 AS 4200000011
Options: <Multihop NoNextHopChange LocalAddress AuthKey GracefulRestart LogUpDown
AddressFamily PeerAS Multipath LocalAS Rib-group Refresh>
Peer ID: 192.168.2.1 Local ID: 192.168.0.1 Active Holdtime: 90
Keepalive Interval: 30 Group index: 1 Peer index: 0 SNMP index: 2
NLRI for restart configured on peer: evpn
NLRI advertised by peer: evpn
Peer supports Refresh capability (2)
Restart time configured on the peer: 120
Stale routes from peer are kept for: 300
Peer does not support Restarter functionality
Restart flag received from the peer: Notification
Peer does not support LLGR Restarter functionality
Peer supports 4 byte AS extension (peer-as 4200000021)
Peer does not support Addpath
Peer: 192.168.2.2+60628 AS 4200000022 Local: 192.168.0.1+179 AS 4200000011
Options: <Multihop NoNextHopChange LocalAddress AuthKey GracefulRestart LogUpDown
AddressFamily PeerAS Multipath LocalAS Rib-group Refresh>
Peer ID: 192.168.2.2 Local ID: 192.168.0.1 Active Holdtime: 90
Keepalive Interval: 30 Group index: 1 Peer index: 1 SNMP index: 3
NLRI for restart configured on peer: evpn
NLRI advertised by peer: evpn
Peer supports Refresh capability (2)
Restart time configured on the peer: 120
Stale routes from peer are kept for: 300
Peer does not support Restarter functionality
Restart flag received from the peer: Notification

624
Peer does not support LLGR Restarter functionality
Peer supports 4 byte AS extension (peer-as 4200000022)
Peer does not support Addpath
Run the command on each OISM leaf devices and look for the corresponding interconnecting subnets
and overlay device loopback addresses.
Configure the EVPN MAC-VRF Instance and Enable Enhanced OISM
You configure the same EVPN MAC-VRF instance named MACVRF-1 on all OISM server leaf and OISM
border leaf devices, with only a few differences for parameters that depend on which device you're
configuring. In later sections for different use case configurations, you add the VLANs, corresponding
IRB interfaces, and VXLAN VNI mappings instance that are specific to that use case.
1. Configure the EVPN-VXLAN MAC-VRF instance named MACVRF-1 in the same way you configure
the MAC-VRF instance for regular OISM, including:
• VLAN-aware service type.
• Device loopback interface as the VXLAN tunnel endpoint (VTEP) source interface.
• Enable all VNIs in the instance to extend into the EVPN BGP domain.
• The same route target for the instance on all of the OISM leaf devices.
• A route distinguisher on each OISM leaf device in which the first part of the value matches the
device loopback IP address—see Figure 95 on page 619.
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 instance-type mac-vrf
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn encapsulation vxlan
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn default-gateway no-gateway-community
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols evpn extended-vni-list all
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vtep-source-interface lo0.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 service-type vlan-aware
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 route-distinguisher device-loopback-IP:33301
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vrf-target target:33300:1
2. On each OISM leaf device, include the device's host-side access interfaces in the MACVRF-1
instance based on the topology in Figure 95 on page 619:

625
a. On SL-1, SL-3, and SL-6, include ae3.0:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae3.0
b. On SL-2, SL-4, and S5, include ae3.0 and ae5.0:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae3.0
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae5.0
c. On BL-1 and BL-2, include ae4.0:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 interface ae4.0
NOTE: The border leaf devices in this example don't use ae3 on the access side, but
as L3 PEG interfaces to route traffic to and from the external PIM domain (see Figure
95 on page 619).
3. Enable OISM in enhanced mode on all OISM server leaf devices and OISM border leaf devices.
set forwarding-options multicast-replication evpn irb enhanced-oism
OISM is not enabled in either regular mode or enhanced mode by default. You must explicitly enable
OISM in regular mode or enhanced mode.
Configure Platform-specific Parameters
Configure the following platform-specific settings required in scaled EVPN-VXLAN environments on all
OISM server leaf or OISM border leaf devices of the indicated device types. For details, see the similar
configuration step 2 for regular OISM in "Configure an OISM-Enabled EVPN MAC-VRF Instance" on
page 559.
• On devices in the QFX5000 line of switches:
set forwarding-options evpn-vxlan shared-tunnels

626
• On QFX5120 switches:
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing next-hop 49152
set forwarding-options vxlan-routing interface-num 8192
• On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches:
set system packet-forwarding-options forwarding-profile host-profile
• On QFX5130 and QFX5700 switches in the EVPN MAC-VRF instance MACVRF-1:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 multicast-snooping-options oism conserve-mcast-routes-in-pfe
Use Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming
Peer) with IGMPv3—SSM
In use case #1, we configure the topology in Figure 96 on page 627 with a tenant VRF called VRF-1.
This use case includes:
• An internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers using IGMPv3 with intra-VLAN and
inter-VLAN multicast flows.
• A single-homed receiver behind a server leaf device that is a multihoming peer of the ingress server
leaf device, so:
• The multihoming peer devices must have same set of revenue VLANs configured (even if both
devices don't host all of the VLANs).
• The ingress server leaf device forwards multicast traffic on the source VLAN (not the SBD) to the
multihoming peer device toward the receiver behind that peer device.
• The ingress server leaf device routes the multicast traffic on the SBD toward the receivers on all
of the other OISM leaf devices.

627
Figure 96: Enhanced OISM Use Case #1 Topology—IGMPv3 with Source Behind Multihoming Peers
SL-1 and SL-2
Table 22 on page 628 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI
mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

628
Table 22: Use Case #1 Elements for Internal Multicast Flow with Multihoming Peer and IGMPv3
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
SBD for VRF-1 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2001, irb.2001, VNI 994002
Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-1, Source Host IP address: 10.0.1.12
IGMPv3—SSM multicast groups: 233.252.0.1 – 233.252.0.3 for intra-VLAN (L2), and 233.252.0.101 –
233.252.0.103 for inter-VLAN (L3)
Source TOR-1— VLAN-1 - VLAN-8 irb.1 - irb.8 VNI 110001 - VNI
Multihomed to 110008
SL-11 and SL-21
Receivers TOR-7—Single- VLAN-1 - VLAN-8 irb.1 - irb.8 VNI 110001 - VNI
homed to SL-21 110008
TOR-2—Single- VLAN-5- VLAN-8 irb.5- irb.8 VNI 110005- VNI
homed to SL-3 110008
TOR-3— VLAN-1 - VLAN-4 irb.1 - irb.4 VNI 110001 - VNI
Multihomed to 110004
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-4— VLAN-1 - VLAN-4 irb.1 - irb.4 VNI 110001 - VNI
Multihomed to 110004
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-5— VLAN-7 - VLAN-8 irb.7 - irb.8 VNI 110007 - VNI
Multihomed to 110008
BL-13 and BL-23
TOR-6—Single- VLAN-3 - VLAN-6 irb.3 - irb.6 VNI 110003 - VNI
homed to SL-6 110006

629
Table 22: Use Case #1 Elements for Internal Multicast Flow with Multihoming Peer and IGMPv3
(Continued)
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2.
2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5.
3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so we configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2.
Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming
Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM
Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use
Case #1: Internal Source to Internal Receivers (Including Multihoming Peer) with IGMPv3—SSM" on
page 626.
1. On each OISM leaf device, in the MACVRF-1 instance, configure the hosted revenue VLANs and
their corresponding IRB interfaces and VNI mappings.
SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 1 through 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vlan-id 1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 l3-interface irb.1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vxlan vni 110001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 l3-interface irb.2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vxlan vni 110002
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 l3-interface irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vxlan vni 110003
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 l3-interface irb.4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vxlan vni 110004
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vlan-id 5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 l3-interface irb.5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vxlan vni 110005
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vlan-id 6

630
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 l3-interface irb.6
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vxlan vni 110006
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vlan-id 7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 l3-interface irb.7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vxlan vni 110007
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vlan-id 8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 l3-interface irb.8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vxlan vni 110008
SL-3—VLANs 5 through 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vlan-id 5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 l3-interface irb.5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vxlan vni 110005
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vlan-id 6
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 l3-interface irb.6
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vxlan vni 110006
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vlan-id 7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 l3-interface irb.7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vxlan vni 110007
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vlan-id 8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 l3-interface irb.8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vxlan vni 110008
SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 1 through 4:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vlan-id 1
se routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 l3-interface irb.1
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-1 vxlan vni 110001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vlan-id 2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 l3-interface irb.2
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2 vxlan vni 110002
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 l3-interface irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vxlan vni 110003
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 l3-interface irb.4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vxlan vni 110004

631
SL-6—VLANs 3 through 6:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vlan-id 3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 l3-interface irb.3
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-3 vxlan vni 110003
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vlan-id 4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 l3-interface irb.4
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-4 vxlan vni 110004
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vlan-id 5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 l3-interface irb.5
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-5 vxlan vni 110005
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vlan-id 6
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 l3-interface irb.6
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-6 vxlan vni 110006
BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—VLANs 7 and 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vlan-id 7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 l3-interface irb.7
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-7 vxlan vni 110007
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vlan-id 8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 l3-interface irb.8
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-8 vxlan vni 110008
2. On all OISM leaf devices, in the MACVRF-1 instance in this use case, configure the SBD VLAN,
corresponding IRB interface, and VNI mapping.
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 vlan-id 2001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 l3-interface irb.2001
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 vlans VLAN-2001 vxlan vni 994002
3. On each device, configure the hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces and the SBD IRB interface in this
use case as L3 gateways with IPv4 and IPv6 dual stack addresses.
In this example, we configure the interfaces as gateways using a unique IRB IP address with a virtual
gateway address (VGA).
On SL-1 for irb.1 (corresponds to revenue VLAN 1), for example:
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-accept-data
set interfaces irb unit 1 no-auto-virtual-gateway-esi

632
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.243/24 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet address 10.0.1.243/24 virtual-gateway-address 10.0.1.254
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:243/112 preferred
set interfaces irb unit 1 family inet6 address 2001:db8::10:0:1:243/112 virtual-gateway-
address 2001:db8::10:0:1:254
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v4-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
set interfaces irb unit 1 virtual-gateway-v6-mac 00:00:5e:00:00:04
Use the same configuration on each leaf device to configure the gateway settings for the IRB
interfaces for the hosted revenue VLANs and the SBD lRB interface, but substitute the following
values to use unique addresses per IRB interface and per leaf device:
NOTE: The SBD IRB interface VGA is common to all of the leaf devices for the VRF in
this use case.
Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SL-1 Revenue VLANs—1 10.0.unit#.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:243/112
through 8
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:243/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
SL-2 Revenue VLANs—1 10.0.unit#.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:244/112
through 8
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:244/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
SL-3 Revenue VLANs—5 10.0.unit#.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:245/112
through 8
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254

633
Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SBD—2001 10.20.1.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:245/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
SL-4 Revenue VLANs—1 10.0.unit#.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:246/112
through 4
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:246/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
SL-5 Revenue VLANs—1 10.0.unit#.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:247/112
through 4
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:247/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
SL-6 Revenue VLANs—3 10.0.unit#.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:248/112
through 6
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:248/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
BL-1 Revenue VLANs—7 and 8 10.0.unit#.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:241/112
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:241/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254

634
Table 23: Use Case #1 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
BL-2 Revenue VLANs—7 and 8 10.0.unit#.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:242/112
10.0.unit#.254 2001:db8::10:0:unit#:254
SBD—2001 10.20.1.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:242/112
10.20.1.254 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254
4. This use case tests IGMPv3 SSM flows, so on each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP with the version 3
option on the IRB interfaces for the revenue VLANs the device hosts, and for the SBD.
All OISM leaf devices—SBD:
set protocols igmp interface irb.2001 version 3
SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.1 through irb.8:
set protocols igmp interface irb.1 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.2 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.3 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.4 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.5 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.6 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.7 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.8 version 3
SL-3—irb.5 through irb.8:
set protocols igmp interface irb.5 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.6 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.7 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.8 version 3

635
SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.1 through irb.4:
set protocols igmp interface irb.1 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.2 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.3 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.4 version 3
SL-6—irb.3 through irb.6:
set protocols igmp interface irb.3 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.4 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.5 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.6 version 3
BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.7 and irb.8:
set protocols igmp interface irb.7 version 3
set protocols igmp interface irb.8 version 3
5. On each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP snooping for IGMP version 3 in the MACVRF-1 instance for
the revenue VLANs the device hosts and the SBD.
In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support IGMPv2 traffic with ASM reports only. We support IGMPv3
traffic with SSM reports only. As a result, when you enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv3 traffic, you
must include the SSM-specific evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option. See Supported IGMP or
MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with
EVPN-VXLAN.
All OISM leaf devices—SBD:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2001 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 1 through 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-1 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-3 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-4 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-5 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-6 evpn-ssm-reports-only

636
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-7 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-8 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-3—VLANs 5 through 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-5 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-6 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-7 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-8 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 1 through 4:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-1 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-3 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-4 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-6—VLANs 3 through 6:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-3 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-4 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-5 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-6 evpn-ssm-reports-only
BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 7 and 8:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-7 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-8 evpn-ssm-reports-only
6. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include
this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-1, in the next step.
For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:
• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.
• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.

637
SL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.3.1.1/32 primary
SL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.3.2.1/32 primary
SL-3:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.4.3.1/32 primary
SL-4:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.7.4.1/32 primary
SL-5:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.7.5.1/32 primary
SL-6:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.8.6.1/32 primary
BL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.1.1.1/32 primary

638
BL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 1 family inet address 10.1.2.1/32 primary
7. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-1 on each of the OISM leaf devices.
VRF instance configuration with enhanced OISM is very similar to VRF instance configuration with
regular OISM, except you include the revenue VLAN IRB interfaces corresponding only to the
revenue VLANs the device hosts. You also include the following:
• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with the VRF instance.
• On the server leaf devices:
• Configure an OSPF area with the SBD IRB interface in OSPF active mode. Include the OSPF
priority 0 option with the SBD IRB interface so server leaf device SBD IRB interfaces never
assume the designated router (DR) or backup designated router (BDR) role in the OSPF area.
Configure OSPF passive mode for the remaining interfaces in the VRF instance so they can
share routes internally without forming OSPF adjacencies.
• Configure PIM in the VRF instance in passive mode on the interfaces for all hosted revenue
VLANs and the SBD. Include the PIM accept-remote-source option so the SBD IRB interface
accepts traffic arriving on that interface as the source interface.
• Add the following interfaces to the VRF instance:
• The SBD IRB interface for this VRF
• The hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces
• The loopback logical interface for this VRF (you configure the loopback logical interface in
Step 6 above)
• On the border leaf devices, which act as PEG devices to route multicast traffic from internal
sources to external receivers, and from external sources to internal receivers:
• Identify the border leaf device as a PEG device in the VRF instance using the pim-evpn-gateway
option at the [edit routing-instances name protocols evpn oism] hierarchy level.
• Configure an OSPF area for the VRF instance with an export policy to share OSPF learned
routes, and includes the following interfaces:
• The interface that connects to the external PIM domain, in OSPF active mode

639
NOTE: The border leaf devices in this example use ae3 as L3 PEG interfaces
to route traffic to and from the external PIM domain (see Figure 95 on page
619). Each VRF instance uses a different logical unit on the ae3 interface for
that purpose to configure multiple use cases in the same topology. In this use
case, VRF-1 on the border leaf devices uses ae3.0 (logical unit = VRF instance
number - 1).
• The SBD IRB interface for the VRF instance (irb.2001 in this case), in OSPF active mode
• The remaining interfaces in passive mode to share internal routes without forming OSPF
adjacencies
• Configure PIM in the VRF instance as follows:
• Statically configure the address for the PIM rendezvous point (RP) in the external PIM
domain.
NOTE: In our test environment, we use an MX Series router as the PIM router
and PIM RP in an external PIM domain. See "Configure External Multicast PIM
Router and PIM RP Router" on page 575 for more on how to configure an MX
Series router as a PIM router and RP with regular OISM; the steps are similar
with enhanced OISM.
• Set distributed-dr mode on the IRB interfaces for the revenue VLANs.
• Enable PIM in regular mode on the interface that connects to the external PIM domain and
the loopback logical interface for the VRF instance.
• Enable PIM in regular mode on the SBD IRB interface, with the following options:
• Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) to improve convergence time with interface
issues to help avoid traffic loss.
• The stickydr option to avoid designated router switchover convergence delays during
reboot events.
• The accept-remote-source option to enable the SBD IRB interface to accept traffic arriving
on that interface as the source interface.
• (QFX Series switches) Set the PIM disable-packet-register option for the VRF instance. The
border leaf devices are the first-hop routers (FHRs) toward the external multicast PIM
domain router and RP. However, for the PIM source registration process, QFX Series
switches don't encapsulate (or decapsulate) multicast packets in PIM register messages and

640
don't generate the PIM register stop message. Without a PIM register stop message, the
source registration process doesn't terminate properly. As a result, to avoid keeping the
PIM registration process in an unpredictable state, we use this option on the border leaf
devices that are QFX Series switches.
• Add the following interfaces to the VRF instance:
• The interface that connects to the external PIM domain—ae3.0
• The SBD IRB interface for this VRF
• The hosted revenue VLAN IRB interfaces
• The loopback logical interface for this VRF
Our enhanced OISM configuration also uses the following conventions in VRF instance
configurations on all OISM leaf devices:
• Enable the graceful restart feature to help with OISM traffic convergence after failure events.
• Use a route target that's the same for this VRF instance on all of the leaf devices, in which the last
segment of the value matches the number in the VRF instance name.
• Use a route distinguisher (RD) for this VRF instance on each leaf device, in which the first part of
the RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the
VRF instance number.
All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6:
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2001 priority 0
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim passive
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface all
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim disable-packet-register
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1

641
Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2:
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 then accept
set routing-instances VRF-1 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-1 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn oism pim-evpn-gateway
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface ae3.0 mtu 9178
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2001
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols ospf export export-direct
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim rp static address pim-rp-IP-address
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.7 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.8 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface lo0.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface ae3.0
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection minimum-interval 1000
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection multiplier 3
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 stickydr
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 hello-interval 30
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim interface irb.2001 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols pim disable-packet-register
set routing-instances VRF-1 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:1
set routing-instances VRF-1 vrf-target target:100:1
Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for
the revenue VLANs the device hosts:
SL-1 and SL-2—irb.1 through irb.8
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.5
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.6
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.7
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.8

642
SL-3—irb.5 through irb.8:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.5
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.6
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.7
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.8
SL-4 and SL-5—irb.1 through irb.4:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.1
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.2
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
SL-6—irb.3 through irb.6:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.3
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.4
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.5
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.6
BL-1 and BL-2—irb.7 and irb.8:
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.7
set routing-instances VRF-1 interface irb.8
Verify Use Case#1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer
Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM
Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #1, in which the internal source is behind SL-1 and SL-2.
SL-2 is a multihoming peer of SL-1, and also has an internal receiver. SL-3 through SL-6, BL-1, and BL-2
also have internal receivers. See the topology in Figure 96 on page 627, and the configuration in
"Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—
SSM" on page 629.
1. Run the show vlans command for the revenue VLANs on each leaf device to see the VXLAN tunnel
end points (VTEPs) between the leaf devices.

643
With the enhanced OISM asymmetric bridge domains model, each leaf device only needs to maintain
VTEPs to the other leaf devices for the VLANs they host in common.
For example, on SL-1, you see the following:
• For VLAN-1—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-1 (SL-2, SL-4, and SL-5)
• For VLAN-2—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-2 (SL-2, SL-4, and SL-5)
• For VLAN-3—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-3 (SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6)
• For VLAN-4—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-4 (SL-2, SL-4, SL-5, and SL-6)
• For VLAN-5—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-5 (SL-2, SL-3, and SL-6)
• For VLAN-6—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-6 (SL-2, SL-3, and SL-6)
• For VLAN-7—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-7 (SL-2, SL-3, BL-1, and BL-2)
• For VLAN-8—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-8 (SL-2, SL-3, BL-1, and BL-2)
On the other devices, you see output only for the VLANs those devices host, with the corresponding
VTEPs to the other leaf devices that host the same VLANs.
SL-1 (output is similar on SL-2, which is a multihoming peer of SL-1):
user@SL-1> show vlans 1
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-1 1
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32773*
user@SL-1> show vlans 2
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-2 2
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32773*

644
user@SL-1> show vlans 3
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-3 3
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32773*
user@SL-1> show vlans 4
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-4 4
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32773*
user@SL-1> show vlans 5
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-5 5
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32774*
user@SL-1> show vlans 6
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-6 6
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32774*
user@SL-1> show vlans 7

645
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-7 7
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
esi.16553*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32774*
vtep-5.32775*
user@SL-1> show vlans 8
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-8 8
ae3.0*
esi.15861*
esi.16553*
vtep-5.32770**
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32774**
vtep-5.32775*
SL-3 (output is similar on SL-6 for the revenue VLANs SL-6 hosts):
user@SL-3> show vlans 1
user@SL-3> show vlans 2
user@SL-3> show vlans 3
user@SL-3> show vlans 4
user@SL-3> show vlans 5
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-5 5
ae3.0*
vtep-4.32769*
vtep-4.32771*
vtep-4.32775*

646
user@SL-3> show vlans 6
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-6 6
ae3.0*
vtep-4.32769*
vtep-4.32771*
vtep-4.32775*
user@SL-3> show vlans 7
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-7 7
ae3.0*
esi.16195*
vtep-4.32769*
vtep-4.32771*
vtep-4.32774*
vtep-4.32775*
user@SL-3> show vlans 8
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-8 8
ae3.0*
esi.16195*
vtep-4.32769*
vtep-4.32771*
vtep-4.32774*
vtep-4.32775*
SL-5 (output is similar on SL-4, which is a multihoming peer of SL-5):
user@SL-5> show vlans 1
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-1 1
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
esi.43435*
vtep-133.32802*

647
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
user@SL-5> show vlans 2
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-2 2
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
user@SL-5> show vlans 3
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-3 3
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32808*
user@SL-5> show vlans 4
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-4 4
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32808*
user@SL-5> show vlans 5
user@SL-5> show vlans 6
user@SL-5> show vlans 7

648
user@SL-5> show vlans 8
2. Run the show vlans command for the SBD (VLAN-2001) on each leaf device to see the SBD VTEPs
between the leaf devices.
You should see VTEPs to each of the other leaf devices (seven VTEPs in this case). We show output
only for SL-2; the results should be similar on all of the leaf devices.
SL-2:
user@SL-2> show vlans 2001
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-2001 2001
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32773*
vtep-5.32774*
vtep-5.32775*
3. Run the show interfaces irb.unit# terse command on each of the leaf devices to verify the revenue
VLAN IRB interfaces are up, and the SBD IRB interface is up.
SL-2 (output is similar on SL-1):
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.1 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.1 up up inet 10.0.1.244/24
10.0.1.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:1:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:1:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:1e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.2 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.2 up up inet 10.0.2.244/24
10.0.2.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:2:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:2:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:2e2:5d80/64

649
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.3 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.3 up up inet 10.0.3.244/24
10.0.3.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:3:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:3:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:3e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.4 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.4 up up inet 10.0.4.244/24
10.0.4.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:4:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:4:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:4e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.5 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.5 up up inet 10.0.5.244/24
10.0.5.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:5:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:5:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:5e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.6 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.6 up up inet 10.0.6.244/24
10.0.6.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:6:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:6:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:6e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.7 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.7 up up inet 10.0.7.244/24
10.0.7.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:7:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:7:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:7e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.8 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote

650
irb.8 up up inet 10.0.8.244/24
10.0.8.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:8:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:8:254/112
fe80::8243:3f00:8e2:5d80/64
user@SL-2> show interfaces irb.2001 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.2001 up up inet 10.20.1.244/24
10.20.1.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:244/112
2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254/112
fe80::8243:3f07:d1e2:5d80/64
SL-3 (output is similar on SL-6 for the revenue VLANs and IRB interfaces you configure on SL-6):
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.1 terse
error: interface irb.1 not found
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.2 terse
error: interface irb.2 not found
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.3 terse
error: interface irb.3 not found
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.4 terse
error: interface irb.4 not found
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.5 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.5 up up inet 10.0.5.245/24
10.0.5.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:5:245/112
2001:db8::10:0:5:254/112
fe80::8a30:3700:576:f630/64
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.6 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.6 up up inet 10.0.6.245/24
10.0.6.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:6:245/112

651
2001:db8::10:0:6:254/112
fe80::8a30:3700:676:f630/64
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.7 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.7 up up inet 10.0.7.245/24
10.0.7.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:7:245/112
2001:db8::10:0:7:254/112
fe80::8a30:3700:776:f630/64
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.8 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.8 up up inet 10.0.8.245/24
10.0.8.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:8:245/112
2001:db8::10:0:8:254/112
fe80::8a30:3700:876:f630/64
user@SL-3> show interfaces irb.2001 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.2001 up up inet 10.20.1.245/24
10.20.1.254/24
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:7d1:245/112
2001:db8::10:0:7d1:254/112
fe80::8a30:3707:d176:f630/64
SL-5 (output is similar on SL-4):
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.1 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.1 up up inet 10.0.1.247/24
10.0.1.254 --> 0/0
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:1:247/112
2001:db8::10:0:1:254-->
fe80::d699:6c00:17a:7ef7/64
multiservice
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.2 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.2 up up inet 10.0.2.247/24

652
10.0.2.254 --> 0/0
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:2:247/112
2001:db8::10:0:2:254-->
fe80::d699:6c00:27a:7ef7/64
multiservice
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.3 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.3 up up inet 10.0.3.247/24
10.0.3.254 --> 0/0
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:3:247/112
2001:db8::10:0:3:254-->
fe80::d699:6c00:37a:7ef7/64
multiservice
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.4 terse
Interface Admin Link Proto Local Remote
irb.4 up up inet 10.0.4.247/24
10.0.4.254 --> 0/0
inet6 2001:db8::10:0:4:247/112
2001:db8::10:0:4:254-->
fe80::d699:6c00:47a:7ef7/64
multiservice
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.5 terse
error: device irb.5 not found
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.6 terse
error: device irb.6 not found
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.7 terse
error: device irb.7 not found
user@SL-5> show interfaces irb.8 terse
error: device irb.8 not found
4. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-1 command on the leaf devices to see the joined multicast
groups, source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. These values show
enhanced OISM in action. For more details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see
How Enhanced OISM Works.

653
For example, we show output from this command for this use case on SL-2 as a source leaf device,
and SL-3 and SL-5 as receiving leaf devices. Based on the test environment for this use case (see
Table 22 on page 628), note the following in the output:
• Group—We use multicast groups 233.252.0.1 through 233.252.0.3 for intra-VLAN traffic (L2
forwarding), and 233.252.0.101 through 233.252.0.103 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing) traffic.
• Source—The IGMPv3 SSM multicast source is behind multihoming peer leaf devices SL-1 and
SL-2, with source address 10.0.1.12.
• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-1 with corresponding IRB
interface irb.1 (the upstream interface). The output shows that with enhanced OISM, either SL-1
or SL-2 send the source traffic toward the receivers from the source VLAN out onto the SBD
(irb.2001 is the downstream neighbor) instead of on the source VLAN the way regular OISM
operates.
Also, with enhanced OISM, the leaf devices that host receivers, such as SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5
shown below, receive the traffic on the SBD (irb.2001 is the upstream neighbor), whether the
traffic is intra-VLAN or inter-VLAN. Then those leaf devices route the traffic from the SBD to the
destination VLAN using the corresponding IRB interfaces. The output is similar for the receivers
behind the other leaf devices based on the VLANs they host.
SL-2 in the source role (output is similar on SL-1):
user@SL-2> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 311
Uptime: 00:44:56
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:44:56 Time since last Join: 00:44:56
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
Group: 233.252.0.2

654
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 311
Uptime: 00:44:56
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:44:56 Time since last Join: 00:44:56
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 311
Uptime: 1d 00:06:01
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 1d 00:06:01 Time since last Join: 1d 00:06:01
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 311
Uptime: 1d 00:06:01
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 1d 00:06:01 Time since last Join: 1d 00:06:01

655
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
...
SL-3 in the receiver role (SL-3 hosts VLANs 5 through 8):
user@SL-3> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1 source 10.0.1.12
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Upstream neighbor: 10.20.1.245
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 342
Uptime: 01:57:14
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 01:57:14 Time since last Join: 01:57:14
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Upstream neighbor: 10.20.1.245
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 342
Uptime: 01:57:14
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 01:57:14 Time since last Join: 01:57:14
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1

656
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Upstream neighbor: 10.20.1.245
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 342
Uptime: 5d 23:24:42
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.5
10.0.5.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:21 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.6
10.0.6.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:30 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.7
10.0.7.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:29 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.8
10.0.8.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:27 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:42 Time since last Join: 01:57:14
Number of downstream interfaces: 5
Number of downstream neighbors: 5
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Upstream neighbor: 10.20.1.245
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 342
Uptime: 5d 23:24:42
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.5
10.0.5.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:21 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.6
10.0.6.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity

657
Uptime: 5d 23:24:30 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.7
10.0.7.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:29 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.8
10.0.8.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:27 Time since last Join: 01:57:15
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:24:42 Time since last Join: 01:57:14
Number of downstream interfaces: 5
Number of downstream neighbors: 5
...
SL-5 in the receiver role (SL-5 hosts VLANs 1 through 4; output is similar for multihoming peer device
SL-4):
user@SL-5> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08 Time since last Join: 01:24:27
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08 Time since last Join: 5d 23:28:34
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2

658
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08 Time since last Join: 01:24:27
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:31:08 Time since last Join: 5d 23:28:34
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 5d 23:30:51
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:50 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:49 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:49 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:51 Time since last Join: 5d 23:28:15
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4

659
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 5d 23:30:51
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:50 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:49 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:49 Time since last Join: 01:24:08
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.247 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 5d 23:30:51 Time since last Join: 5d 23:28:15
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
...
5. Run the show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 extensive command on the leaf devices
to check for the expected routes in the multicast routing table.
For example, we include the output for this use case on SL-2 as a source leaf device, and SL-3 and
SL-5 as receiving leaf devices.
Like in Step 4 of this verification, the output on SL-1 and SL-2 (source devices) should show that SL-1
and SL-2:
• Receive the traffic on source VLAN 1 (irb.1) as the upstream interface.
• Route the traffic out onto the SBD (irb.2001) toward the receivers for either intra-VLAN (L2) or
inter-vlan (L3) multicast flows.
The output on SL-3 and SL-5 should show that SL-3 and SL-5:
• Receive the traffic on the SBD as the upstream interface.

660
• Route the traffic to the destination VLAN for the VLANs they host.
SL-2 in the source role (output is similar on SL-1):
user@SL-2> show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 extensive
Instance: VRF-1 Family: INET
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 855 kBps, 1670 pps, 292063350 packets
Next-hop ID: 524287
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 2
Uptime: 2d 14:30:00
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 855 kBps, 1670 pps, 292063350 packets
Next-hop ID: 524287
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 2
Uptime: 2d 14:30:00
...
Group: 233.252.0.101

661
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 855 kBps, 1670 pps, 292851768 packets
Next-hop ID: 524287
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 2
Uptime: 2d 14:30:00
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 570 kBps, 1114 pps, 263540784 packets
Next-hop ID: 524287
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 2
Uptime: 2d 14:30:00
...
SL-3 in the receiver role (SL-3 hosts VLANs 5 through 8):
user@SL-3> show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 extensive
Instance: VRF-1 Family: INET
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001 (rpf check disabled)

662
Number of outgoing interfaces: 0
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 345 kBps, 614 pps, 208539837 packets
Next-hop ID: 0
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Pruned
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 0
Uptime: 02:03:08
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001 (rpf check disabled)
Number of outgoing interfaces: 0
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 345 kBps, 614 pps, 208539616 packets
Next-hop ID: 0
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Pruned
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 0
Uptime: 02:03:08
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001 (rpf check disabled)
Downstream interface list:
irb.5 irb.6 irb.7 irb.8
Number of outgoing interfaces: 4
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 345 kBps, 614 pps, 550061134 packets
Next-hop ID: 524404
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:30:36

663
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001 (rpf check disabled)
Downstream interface list:
irb.5 irb.6 irb.7 irb.8
Number of outgoing interfaces: 4
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 345 kBps, 614 pps, 550060356 packets
Next-hop ID: 524404
Upstream protocol: PIM
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:30:36
...
SL-5 in the receiver role (SL-5 hosts VLANs 1 through 4; output is similar for multihoming peer device
SL-4):
user@SL-5> show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 extensive
Instance: VRF-1 Family: INET
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Downstream interface list:
irb.1
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 374 kBps, 670 pps, 338600484 packets
Next-hop ID: 33506
Upstream protocol: Multicast
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:32:10
Sensor ID: 0xf00001ce

664
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Downstream interface list:
irb.1
Number of outgoing interfaces: 1
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 374 kBps, 670 pps, 338600490 packets
Next-hop ID: 33506
Upstream protocol: Multicast
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:34:15
Sensor ID: 0xf000009f
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Downstream interface list:
irb.2 irb.3 irb.4
Number of outgoing interfaces: 3
Session description: Source specific multicast
Statistics: 374 kBps, 670 pps, 3428920 packets
Next-hop ID: 33697
Upstream protocol: Multicast
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:34:15
Sensor ID: 0xf0000020
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.2001
Downstream interface list:
irb.2 irb.3 irb.4
Number of outgoing interfaces: 3
Session description: Source specific multicast

665
Statistics: 374 kBps, 670 pps, 3428920 packets
Next-hop ID: 33697
Upstream protocol: Multicast
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Cache lifetime/timeout: forever
Wrong incoming interface notifications: 1
Uptime: 5d 23:34:15
Sensor ID: 0xf0000021
...
6. Verify that multihoming peer devices receive source traffic on the source VLAN rather than on the
SBD.
In use case #1, SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peer devices with the multicast source behind them.
On SL-2, we add a single-homed receiver connected on interface ae5 to TOR-7. See Figure 95 on
page 619. In this case, if SL-1 is the ingress leaf device and receives the source traffic, then with
enhanced OISM, SL-1 sends the traffic to SL-2 on the source VLAN instead of on the SBD. SL-1
sends the source traffic on the SBD to the other leaf devices with interested receivers.
For more details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM
Works.
Run these commands on SL-2 with the single-homed receiver behind TOR-7:
a. Run the show igmp snooping membership command for the EVPN instance MACVRF-1 to verify that
IGMP snooping is enabled on the VLANs that SL-2 hosts. You can also verify the multicast groups
the receiver behind TOR-7 has joined. We show output for the first few VLANs. The output is
similar for the remaining VLANs.
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-1 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-1
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.1
Group mode: Include

666
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 143
Last reported by: 10.0.1.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.2
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 143
Last reported by: 10.0.1.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.3
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 143
Last reported by: 10.0.1.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-2 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-2
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.101
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 144
Last reported by: 10.0.2.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.102
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 144
Last reported by: 10.0.2.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.103
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 144

667
Last reported by: 10.0.2.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show igmp snooping membership vlan VLAN-3 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-3
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: 233.252.0.101
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 150
Last reported by: 10.0.3.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.102
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 150
Last reported by: 10.0.3.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: 233.252.0.103
Group mode: Include
Source: 10.0.1.12
Source timeout: 150
Last reported by: 10.0.3.98
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
...
b. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-1 command to verify the upstream interface is the IRB
interface for the source VLAN, which is irb.1 in this case. The downstream neighbors include the
SBD IRB interface and the other revenue VLAN IRB interfaces that have local receivers on the
corresponding VLAN.
user@SL-2> show pim join extensive instance VRF-1
Instance: PIM.VRF-1 Family: INET

668
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:08:37
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:08:37
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.1
10.0.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Number of downstream interfaces: 2
Number of downstream neighbors: 2
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt

669
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 0
Uptime: 00:14:32
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2
10.0.2.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.5
10.0.5.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.6
10.0.6.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.7
10.0.7.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.8
10.0.8.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:14:32 Time since last Join: 00:14:31
Number of downstream interfaces: 8
Number of downstream neighbors: 8
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.1
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout: 0
Uptime: 00:14:32
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2

670
10.0.2.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.3
10.0.3.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.4
10.0.4.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.5
10.0.5.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.6
10.0.6.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.7
10.0.7.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.8
10.0.8.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:08:37 Time since last Join: 00:08:37
Interface: irb.2001
10.20.1.244 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:14:32 Time since last Join: 00:14:31
Number of downstream interfaces: 8
Number of downstream neighbors: 8
...
c. Run the show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1 command to check for the
expected routes in the multicast forwarding table. The the source VLAN IRB interface, irb.1, is the
upstream interface. The outgoing interface list (the downstream interface list) consists of the
other IRB interfaces to which the device forwards and routes the multicast traffic.
user@SL-2> show multicast route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance VRF-1
Instance: VRF-1 Family: INET
Group: 233.252.0.1
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001

671
Group: 233.252.0.2
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2001
...
Group: 233.252.0.101
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2 irb.3 irb.4 irb.5 irb.6 irb.7 irb.8 irb.2001
Group: 233.252.0.102
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Upstream interface: irb.1
Downstream interface list:
irb.2 irb.3 irb.4 irb.5 irb.6 irb.7 irb.8 irb.2001
...
d. Run the show multicast snooping route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance MACVRF-1 extensive command to
check for the expected entries in the multicast snooping forwarding table with the outgoing
interface for the multicast traffic. (For brevity, in the output below we have trimmed similar results
for some of the multicast groups.)
user@SL-2> show multicast snooping route source-prefix 10.0.1.12 instance MACVRF-1
extensive
Nexthop Bulking: OFF
Family: INET
Group: 233.252.0.1/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-1
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets

672
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
Group: 233.252.0.2/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-1
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-1
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 0
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Pruned
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-2
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.1/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32

673
Vlan: VLAN-2001
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh -(524454)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524475
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-2001
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh -(524451)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524371
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-3
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-4
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)

674
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-5
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-6
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-7
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding

675
...
Group: 233.252.0.101/32
Source: 10.0.1.12/32
Vlan: VLAN-8
Mesh-group: __all_ces__
Downstream interface list:
ae5.0 -(2411)
Statistics: 0 kBps, 0 pps, 0 packets
Next-hop ID: 524481
Route state: Active
Forwarding state: Forwarding
...
Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with
IGMPv2—ASM
In use case #2, we configure the topology in Figure 97 on page 676 with a tenant VRF called VRF-26.
This use case includes:
• Intra-VLAN and inter-VLAN multicast flows using IGMPv2.
• A single-homed internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers.
• An external multicast receiver in an external PIM domain. As a result:
• The ingress leaf device advertises EVPN Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes for each internal multicast
source and group (S,G).
• The OISM border leaf PEG devices, BL-1 and BL-2, receive the EVPN Type 10 route. The BL
device that is the PIM designated router (DR) for the SBD, BL-2 in this case, sends a PIM register
message for the (S,G) on its PEG interface to the PIM router in the external PIM domain.
• In response to the PIM register message, the PIM router sends a PIM Join message to either of
the multihomed attached OISM PEG devices, BL-1 or BL-2. In this case, BL-2 receives the PIM
Join message. .
• The OISM PEG device that receives the PIM join, BL-2, sends the multicast traffic on its PEG
interface toward the external receiver behind the PIM router.

676
NOTE: The test environment uses an MX Series router as the PIM router and PIM RP in
an external PIM domain. See "Configure External Multicast PIM Router and PIM RP
Router" on page 575 for an example of how to configure an MX Series router as a PIM
router and RP with regular OISM; the steps are similar with enhanced OISM.
Figure 97: Enhanced OISM Use Case #2 Topology—IGMPv2 with Source Behind SL-3 and External
Receiver in External PIM Domain
Table 24 on page 677 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI
mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

677
Table 24: Use Case#2 Elements for Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
SBD for VRF-26 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2026, irb.2026, VNI 994027
Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-201, Source Host IP address: 10.0.201.12
IGMPv2—ASM multicast groups: 233.252.0.71 – 233.252.0.73 for intra-VLAN (L2), and 233.252.0.171 –
233.252.0.173 for inter-VLAN (L3)
Source TOR-2—Single- VLAN-201 - irb.201 - irb.208 VNI 110201 - VNI
homed to SL-3 VLAN-208 110208
Receivers TOR-1— VLAN-203- irb.203- irb.206 VNI 110203- VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-206 110206
SL-11 and SL-21
TOR-3— VLAN-205 - irb.205 - irb.208 VNI 110205 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-208 110208
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-4— VLAN-205 - irb.205 - irb.208 VNI 110205 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-208 110208
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-5— VLAN-207 - irb.207 - irb.208 VNI 110207 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-208 110208
BL-13 and BL-23
TOR-6—Single- VLAN-201 - irb.201 - irb.204 VNI 110201 - VNI
homed to SL-6 VLAN-204 110204
EXT RCVR in VLAN-3126 n/a n/a
External PIM
domain

678
Table 24: Use Case#2 Elements for Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2
(Continued)
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2.
2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5.
3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2.
Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers
with IGMPv2—ASM
Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use
Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page 675.
The main differences in this use case from use case #1 are that here:
• We use enhanced OISM for multicast flows with IGMPv2 (ASM) from a single-homed source behind
SL-3.
• SL-3 hosts revenue VLANs VLAN-201 through VLAN-208, and the other leaf devices host different
subsets of those revenue VLANs.
• We use VRF-26, and configure the SBD for this VRF as VLAN-2026.
1. On each OISM leaf device, configure the revenue VLANs the device hosts, their corresponding IRB
interfaces, and VNI mappings in the same way as "Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and
Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM" on page 629 for steps 1 through 3,
but use the values in Table 24 on page 677, and Table 25 on page 679 below for the IRB interface
addresses and virtual gateway addresses.

679
Table 25: Use Case #2 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SL-1 Revenue VLANs—201 10.0.unit#.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 208 unit#:243/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:243/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
SL-2 Revenue VLANs—201 10.0.unit#.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 208 unit#:244/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:244/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
SL-3 Revenue VLANs—205 10.0.unit#.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 208 unit#:245/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:245/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
SL-4 Revenue VLANs—201 10.0.unit#.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 204 unit#:246/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:246/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254

680
Table 25: Use Case #2 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SL-5 Revenue VLANs—201 10.0.unit#.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 204 unit#:247/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:247/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
SL-6 Revenue VLANs—203 10.0.unit#.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 206 unit#:248/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:248/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
BL-1 Revenue VLANs—207 and 10.0.unit#.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
208 unit#:241/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:241/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254
BL-2 Revenue VLANs—207 and 10.0.unit#.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
208 unit#:242/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2026 10.20.26.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:242/112
10.20.26.254 2001:db8::10:0:7ea:254

681
2. This use case tests IGMPv2 ASM flows. IGMPv2 is enabled by default on all interfaces on which you
configure PIM, so you don't need to explicitly enable IGMP in this case. Each OISM leaf device will
use IGMPv2 on the IRB interfaces for which you did not explicitly configure IGMPv3 with the [edit
protocols igmp interface interface-name version 3 statement.
3. On each OISM leaf device, enable IGMP snooping for IGMPv2 in the MACVRF-1 instance for the
revenue VLANs the device hosts, and the SBD.
For simplicity, you can enable IGMP snooping for all VLANs in the MAC-VRF instance with the
following command:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan all proxy
NOTE: With the vlan all option above, if you need IGMP snooping with IGMPv3 for
some of the VLANs, you can explicitly enable IGMP snooping with the evpn-ssm-reports-
only option only for those VLANs, as we do in use case #1. The remaining VLANs will
use IGMP snooping with IGMPv2.
Alternatively, on each device you can enable IGMP snooping explicitly for the SBD and the VLANs
that device hosts.
All OISM leaf devices:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2026
SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 203 through 206:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-203
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-204
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-205
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-206
SL-3—VLANs 201 through 208:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-201
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-202
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-203
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-204
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-205
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-206

682
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-207
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-208
SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 205 through 208:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-205
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-206
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-207
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-208
SL-6—VLANs 201 through 204:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-201
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-202
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-203
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-204
BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 207 and 208:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-207
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-208
4. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include
this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-26, in the next step.
For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:
• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.
• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.
SL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.3.1.26/32 primary
SL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.3.2.26/32 primary

683
SL-3:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.4.3.26/32 primary
SL-4:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.7.4.26/32 primary
SL-5:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.7.5.26/32 primary
SL-6:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.8.6.26/32 primary
BL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.1.1.26/32 primary
BL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 26 family inet address 10.1.2.26/32 primary
5. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-26 on each of the OISM leaf devices.
Include the same elements for the server leaf and border leaf devices in the VRF configuration as we
describe in use case #1, Step 7, with the following differences for this use case:
• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with this VRF instance, which is irb.26.
• On the border leaf devices, the L3 PEG interface for VRF-26 is ae3.25 (logical unit = VRF instance
number - 1).

684
• On each device, include the loopback logical interface for this VRF instance that you configure in
Step 4 above.
• Use the same route target for this VRF instance on all of the OISM leaf devices—target:100:26.
• Configure an RD following the same convention as in use case #1, in which the first part of the
RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the VRF
instance number—device-loopback-unit-0-address:26.
All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6:
set routing-instances VRF-26 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-26 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2026
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2026 priority 0
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim passive
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface all
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim disable-packet-register
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface lo0.26
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.2026
set routing-instances VRF-26 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:26
set routing-instances VRF-26 vrf-target target:100:26
Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2:
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 then accept
set routing-instances VRF-26 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-26 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2026
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface ae3.25 mtu 9178
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2026
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols ospf export export-direct
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim rp static address pim-rp-IP-address
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.207 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.208 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface lo0.26
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface ae3.25
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 family inet bfd-liveness-

685
detection minimum-interval 1000
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection multiplier 3
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 stickydr
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 hello-interval 30
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim interface irb.2026 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-26 protocols pim disable-packet-register
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface lo0.26
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface ae3.25
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.2026
set routing-instances VRF-26 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:26
set routing-instances VRF-26 vrf-target target:100:26
Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for
the revenue VLANs the device hosts:
SL-1 and SL-2:
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.203
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.204
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.205
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.206
SL-3:
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.201
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.202
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.203
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.204
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.205
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.206
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.207
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.208
SL-4 and SL-5:
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.205
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.206

686
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.207
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.208
SL-6:
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.201
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.202
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.203
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.204
BL-1 and BL-2:
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.207
set routing-instances VRF-26 interface irb.208
Verify Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers
with IGMPv2—ASM
Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #2 where we have a single-homed internal source behind
SL-3 sending IGMPv2 multicast traffic. SL-2 is a multihoming peer of SL-1, and also connects to an
internal receiver on TOR-7. SL-3 through SL-6, BL-1, and BL-2 connect to internal receivers. An external
receiver also subscribes to the source traffic through an external PIM router and RP by way of OISM
PEG devices BL-1 and BL-2. See the topology in Figure 97 on page 676, and the configuration in
"Configure Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page
678.
In this case, we focus on how to verify enhanced OISM operation with an external receiver. SL-6, as the
ingress OISM leaf device, advertises EVPN Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes for the multicast source and
groups (S,G). BL-1 and BL-2 receive the EVPN Type 10 route on the SBD. In this example, BL-2 is the
PIM DR for the SBD, so BL-2 sends a PIM register message for the (S,G) on its PEG interface to the PIM
router and RP. The PIM router sends a PIM Join back to either of the multihomed attached OISM PEG
devices, in this case BL-2. BL-2 sends multicast traffic from that (S,G) on its PEG interface toward the
external receiver.
See "Use Case #2: Internal Source to Internal and External Receivers with IGMPv2—ASM" on page 675
for all of the parameters in this use case.

687
1. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-26 command on SL-3, the ingress leaf device, to see the
joined multicast groups, source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. For more
details on how enhanced OISM north-south traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works.
Note the following in the output:
• Group—Multicast groups 233.252.0.71 through 233.252.0.73 for intra-VLAN traffic (L2
forwarding), and 233.252.0.171 through 233.252.0.173 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing) traffic.
• Source—The multicast source behind SL-3 has source address 10.0.201.12.
• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-201. SL-3 receives the
traffic on irb.201 (the upstream interface). With enhanced OISM, SL-3 routes the multicast traffic
to the other leaf devices only on the SBD, and the receiving leaf devices all receive the traffic on
the SBD. As a result, the upstream interface would be irb.2026, the SBD IRB interface, for the
receiving devices. Between the multihoming peer receiver devices BL-1 and BL-2, BL-2 received
the PIM Join in this case, so BL-2 routes the traffic from the SBD toward the external receiver on
its PEG interface.
SL-3 in the source role for the first multicast group (output is similar for the other groups):
user@SL-3> show pim join extensive instance VRF-26 source 10.0.201.12 sg 233.252.0.71
Instance: PIM.VRF-26 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: 233.252.0.71
Source: 10.0.201.12
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.201
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP, No Prune to RP
Keepalive timeout: 318
Uptime: 01:09:47
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2026
10.20.26.245 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 01:09:47 Time since last Join: 01:09:47
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
2. Use the show evpn oism spmsi-ad command to see the source and group (S,G) information in the EVPN
Type 10 S-PMSI A-D routes that SL-3 advertises and BL-2 receives.

688
For example, we show the output of this command for the source address in this use case
(10.0.201.12) and the first intra-VLAN multicast group (233.252.0.71). The command and output are
similar for the other multicast groups in this use case.
SL-3:
user@SL-3> show evpn oism spmsi-ad extensive source 10.0.201.12 group 233.252.0.71
Instance: MACVRF-1
VN Identifier: 994027
Group Source Local Remote
233.252.0.71 10.0.201.12 1 6
BL-2:
user@BL-2> show evpn oism spmsi-ad extensive source 10.0.201.12 group 233.252.0.71
Instance: MACVRF-1
VN Identifier: 994027
Group Source Local Remote
233.252.0.71 10.0.201.12 1 6
3. Run the show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 10* extensive command to see the details about the
EVPN Type 10 routes advertised by SL-3, the device that hosts the multicast source.
For example, we show the EVPN Type 10 route table entries on SL-3 (the source device), BL-2 (a
receiver and PEG device), and SL-2 (another receiver). We include results for the first multicast group
in this use case, 233.252.0.71. The commands and output are similar for the other leaf devices and
multicast groups in this use case.
SL-3 in the source device role:
user@SL-3> show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 10* extensive | find 10:192.168.0.3
10:192.168.0.3:33301::994027::10.0.201.12::233.252.0.71::192.168.0.3/520 (1 entry, 1
announced)
*EVPN Preference: 170
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x8252214
Next-hop reference count: 8671
Kernel Table Id: 0
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Indirect next hop: 0x0 - INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0

689
State: <Active Int Ext>
Age: 16:12
Validation State: unverified
Task: MACVRF-1-evpn
Announcement bits (1): 2-rt-export
AS path: I
Communities: encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Thread: junos-main
SL-2 in the receiving device role:
user@SL-2> show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 10* extensive | find 10:192.168.0.3
10:192.168.0.3:33301::994027::10.0.201.12::233.252.0.71::192.168.0.3/520 (2 entries, 1
announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.3:33301
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x825ec94
Next-hop reference count: 1488
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.2.2
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
State: <Secondary Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4200000022
Age: 18:37 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4200000022_42000000.192.168.2.2
Announcement bits (1): 0-MACVRF-1-evpn
AS path: 4200000022 4200000013 I
Communities: target:33300:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.2
Primary Routing Table: bgp.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3 ResolvState: Resolved
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0

690
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.2.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.4.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.2.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.4.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.3:33301
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x825ec94
Next-hop reference count: 1488
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.2.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
State: <Secondary Ext>
Inactive reason: Active preferred
Peer AS: 4200000021
Age: 18:37 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4200000021_42000000.192.168.2.1
AS path: 4200000021 4200000013 I
Communities: target:33300:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.1
Primary Routing Table: bgp.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3 ResolvState: Resolved
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router

691
Next hop: 172.16.2.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.4.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.2.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.4.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
BL-2 in the receiving device role and as a PEG device:
user@BL-2> show route table MACVRF-1.evpn.0 match-prefix 10* extensive | find 10:192.168.0.3
10:192.168.0.3:33301::994027::10.0.201.12::233.252.0.71::192.168.0.3/520 (2 entries, 1
announced)
*BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.3:33301
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x8254114
Next-hop reference count: 1488
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.2.2
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
State: <Secondary Active Ext>
Peer AS: 4200000022
Age: 19:33 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4200000022_42000000.192.168.2.2
Announcement bits (1): 0-MACVRF-1-evpn
AS path: 4200000022 4200000013 I
Communities: target:33300:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.2
Primary Routing Table: bgp.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main

692
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3 ResolvState: Resolved
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.12.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.14.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.12.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.14.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
BGP Preference: 170/-101
Route Distinguisher: 192.168.0.3:33301
Next hop type: Indirect, Next hop index: 0
Address: 0x8254114
Next-hop reference count: 1488
Kernel Table Id: 0
Source: 192.168.2.1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
State: <Secondary Ext Changed>
Inactive reason: Active preferred
Peer AS: 4200000021
Age: 19:33 Metric2: 0
Validation State: unverified
Task: BGP_4200000021_42000000.192.168.2.1
AS path: 4200000021 4200000013 I
Communities: target:33300:1 encapsulation:vxlan(0x8)
Import Accepted
Localpref: 100
Router ID: 192.168.2.1
Primary Routing Table: bgp.evpn.0
Thread: junos-main
Indirect next hops: 1
Protocol next hop: 192.168.0.3 ResolvState: Resolved

693
Indirect next hop: 0x2 no-forward INH Session ID: 0
Indirect next hop: INH non-key opaque: 0x0 INH key opaque: 0x0
Indirect path forwarding next hops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.12.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.14.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
192.168.0.3/32 Originating RIB: inet.0
Node path count: 1
Forwarding nexthops: 2
Next hop type: Router
Next hop: 172.16.12.0 via ae1.0
Session Id: 0
Next hop: 172.16.14.0 via ae2.0
Session Id: 0
Use Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM
In use case #3, we configure the topology in Figure 98 on page 694 with a tenant VRF called VRF-56.
This use case includes:
• An internal multicast source and internal multicast receivers.
• Inter-VLAN IPv6 multicast flows using MLDv2 (none of the OISM leaf devices host the source VLAN,
so all OISM traffic will be inter-VLAN traffic)
Note that we support both IPv4 and IPv6 multicast data traffic with an IPv4 EVPN core. We use the
same underlay and overlay peering for MLD multicast traffic as we use for IGMP in use case #1 and use
case #2.

694
Figure 98: Enhanced OISM Use Case #3 Topology—MLDv2 IPv6 Multicast with Internal Source Behind
SL-6 and Internal Receivers
Table 26 on page 695 describes the multicast groups, device roles, configured VLANs, VXLAN VNI
mappings for the VLANs, and the corresponding IRB interfaces for each VLAN.

695
Table 26: Use Case #3 Elements for Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
SBD for VRF-56 on all enhanced OISM leaf devices: VLAN-2056, irb.2056, VNI 994057
Multicast source VLAN: VLAN-141, Source Host IPv6 address: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
MLDv2—SSM multicast groups for inter-VLAN traffic only: ff0e::db8:0:1 – ff0e::db8:0:3 for inter-VLAN (L3)
Source TOR-6—Single- VLAN-141 - irb.141 - irb.148 VNI 110141 - VNI
homed to SL-6 VLAN-148 110148
Receivers TOR-1— VLAN-142 - irb.142 - irb.144 VNI 110142 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-144 110144
SL-11 and SL-21
TOR-7—Single- VLAN-142 - irb.142 - irb.144 VNI 110142 - VNI
homed to SL-21 VLAN-144 110144
TOR-2—Single- VLAN-143- irb.143- irb.146 VNI 110143- VNI
homed to SL-3 VLAN-146 110146
TOR-3— VLAN-145 - irb.145 - irb.148 VNI 110145 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-148 110148
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-4— VLAN-145 - irb.145 - irb.148 VNI 110145 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-148 110148
SL-42 and SL-52
TOR-5— VLAN-147 - irb.147 - irb.148 VNI 110147 - VNI
Multihomed to VLAN-148 110148
BL-13 and BL-23

696
Table 26: Use Case #3 Elements for Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2 (Continued)
Role Device Configured Configured IRB VXLAN VNI
Revenue VLANs Interfaces Mappings
1 SL-1 and SL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-1 and SL-2.
2 SL-4 and SL-5 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on SL-4 and SL-5.
3 BL-1 and BL-2 are multihoming peers, so configure the same revenue VLANs on BL-1 and BL-2.
Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM
Configure the revenue VLANs, SBD, tenant VRF, and multicast protocols specific to the use case in "Use
Case #3: Internal Source to Internal Receivers with MLDv2—SSM" on page 693.
The main differences in this use case from use case #1 are that here:
• We use enhanced OISM for IPv6 multicast flows with MLDv2 from a single-homed source behind
SL-6.
• SL-6 hosts revenue VLANs VLAN-141 through VLAN-148, and the other leaf devices host different
subsets of revenue VLANs VLAN-142 through VLAN-148.
• We configure a VRF named VRF-56, and configure the SBD for this VRF using VLAN-2056.
1. On each OISM leaf device, configure the revenue VLANs the device hosts, their corresponding IRB
interfaces, and VNI mappings in the same way as "Configure Use Case #1: Internal Source and
Receivers with Multihoming Peer Receiver and IGMPv3—SSM" on page 629 for steps 1 through 3,
but use the values in Table 26 on page 695, and refer to Table 27 on page 697 below for the IRB
interface addresses and virtual gateway addresses.

697
Table 27: Use Case #3 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SL-1 Revenue VLANs—142 10.0.unit#.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 144 unit#:243/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.243/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:243/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
SL-2 Revenue VLANs—142 10.0.unit#.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 144 unit#:244/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.244/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:244/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
SL-3 Revenue VLANs—143 10.0.unit#.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 146 unit#:245/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.245/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:245/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
SL-4 Revenue VLANs—145 10.0.unit#.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 148 unit#:246/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.246/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:246/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254

698
Table 27: Use Case #3 IRB Addresses and Virtual Gateway Addresses (Continued)
Leaf Device IRB Interface Unit# IRB IPv4 Address IRB IPv6 Address
IPv4 VGA IPv6 VGA
SL-5 Revenue VLANs—145 10.0.unit#.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 148 unit#:247/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.247/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:247/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
SL-6 Revenue VLANs—141 10.0.unit#.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
through 148 unit#:248/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.248/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:248/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
BL-1 Revenue VLANs—147 and 10.0.unit#.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
148 unit#:241/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.241/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:241/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254
BL-2 Revenue VLANs—147 and 10.0.unit#.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:hex-
148 unit#:242/112
10.0.unit#.254
2001:db8::10:0:hex-unit#:254
SBD—2056 10.20.56.242/24 2001:db8::10:0:808:242/112
10.20.56.254 2001:db8::10:0:808:254

699
2. This use case tests MLDv2 SSM flows, so enable MLD version 2 on the IRB interfaces for the
revenue VLANs and the SBD in this use case.
All OISM leaf devices—SBD:
set protocols mld interface irb.2056 version 2
SL-1 and SL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.142 through irb.144:
set protocols mld interface irb.142 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.143 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.144 version 2
SL-3—irb.143 through irb.146:
set protocols mld interface irb.143 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.144 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.145 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.146 version 2
SL-4 and SL-5 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.145 through irb.148:
set protocols mld interface irb.145 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.146 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.147 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.148 version 2
SL-6—irb.141 through irb.148:
set protocols mld interface irb.141 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.142 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.143 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.144 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.145 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.146 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.147 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.148 version 2

700
BL-1 and BL-2 (multihoming peer devices)—irb.147 and irb.148:
set protocols mld interface irb.147 version 2
set protocols mld interface irb.148 version 2
3. IGMP snooping is enabled by default on the OISM leaf devices. So on each OISM leaf device, disable
IGMP snooping and enable MLD snooping for MLDv2 in the MACVRF-1 instance for the SBD and
the revenue VLANs the device hosts.
In EVPN-VXLAN fabrics, we support MLDv1 traffic with ASM reports only. We support MLDv2
traffic with SSM reports only. As a result, when you enable MLD snooping for MLDv2 traffic, you
must include the SSM-specific evpn-ssm-reports-only configuration option. See Supported IGMP or
MLD Versions and Group Membership Report Modes for more on ASM and SSM support with
EVPN-VXLAN.
All OISM leaf devices—SBD:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-2056 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-2056 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-1 and SL-2—VLANs 142 through 144:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-142 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-143 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-144 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-142 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-143 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-144 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-3—VLANs 143 through 146:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-143 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-144 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-145 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-146 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-143 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-144 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-145 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-146 evpn-ssm-reports-only

701
SL-4 and SL-5—VLANs 145 through 148:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-145 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-146 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-147 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-148 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-145 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-146 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-147 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-148 evpn-ssm-reports-only
SL-6—VLANs 141 through 148:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-141 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-142 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-143 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-144 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-145 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-146 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-147 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-148 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-141 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-142 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-143 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-144 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-145 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-146 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-147 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-148 evpn-ssm-reports-only
BL-1 and BL-2—VLANs 147 and 148:
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-147 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols igmp-snooping vlan VLAN-148 disable
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-147 evpn-ssm-reports-only
set routing-instances MACVRF-1 protocols mld-snooping vlan VLAN-148 evpn-ssm-reports-only

702
NOTE: MLDv1 is the default version when you enable MLD and MLD snooping. If you
have a use case with MLDv1—ASM flows, you configure MLD without the version
option, and configure MLD snooping without the evpn-ssm-reports-only option, as
follows:
set protocols mld interface irb.unit#
set routing-instances macvrf-instance protocols mld-snooping vlan vlan-name
4. On each OISM leaf device, configure a loopback logical interface for the VRF instance. We include
this interface in the VRF instance, VRF-56, in the next step.
For the loopback logical interface configuration, we use the following conventions:
• The logical unit number matches the VRF instance number.
• The last octet of the interface's IP address also matches the VRF instance number.
SL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.3.1.56/32 primary
SL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.3.2.56/32 primary
SL-3:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.4.3.56/32 primary
SL-4:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.7.4.56/32 primary

703
SL-5:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.7.5.56/32 primary
SL-6:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.8.6.56/32 primary
BL-1:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.1.1.56/32 primary
BL-2:
set interfaces lo0 unit 56 family inet address 10.1.2.56/32 primary
5. Configure the tenant VRF instance named VRF-56 on each of the OISM leaf devices.
Include the same elements for the server leaf and border leaf devices in the VRF configuration as we
describe in use case #1, Step 7, with the following differences for this use case:
• Identify the OISM SBD IRB interface associated with this VRF instance, which is irb.56.
• For IPv6 multicast traffic, also configure an OSPF version 3 (OSPFv3) area on the IRB interface for
the SBD (in OSPF active mode) and the IRB interfaces for the hosted VLANs (in passive mode).
• On the border leaf devices, the L3 PEG interface for VRF-56 is ae3.55 (logical unit = VRF instance
number - 1).
• On each device, include the loopback logical interface for this VRF instance that you configure in
Step 4 above.
• Use the same route target for this VRF instance on all of the OISM leaf devices—target:100:56.
• Configure an RD following the same convention as in use case #1, in which the first part of the
RD value mirrors the device loopback (unit 0) IP address, and the second part matches the VRF
instance number—device-loopback-unit-0-address:56.

704
All server leaf devices SL-1 through SL-6:
set routing-instances VRF-56 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-56 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2056
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2056 priority 0
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf3 area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2056 priority 0
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf3 area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim passive
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface all
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface lo0.56
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.2056
set routing-instances VRF-56 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:56
set routing-instances VRF-56 vrf-target target:100:56
Border leaf devices BL-1 and BL-2:
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 from protocol direct
set policy-options policy-statement export-direct term t1 then accept
set routing-instances VRF-56 instance-type vrf
set routing-instances VRF-56 routing-options graceful-restart
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols evpn oism supplemental-bridge-domain-irb irb.2056
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface ae3.55 mtu 9178
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2056set routing-
instances VRF-56 protocols ospf area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf export export-direct
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf3 area 1.1.1.1 interface irb.2056 priority 0
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols ospf3 area 1.1.1.1 interface all passive
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim rp static address pim-rp-IP-address
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.147 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.148 distributed-dr
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface lo0.56
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface ae3.55
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection minimum-interval 1000
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 family inet bfd-liveness-
detection multiplier 3
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 stickydr
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 hello-interval 30

705
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim interface irb.2056 accept-remote-source
set routing-instances VRF-56 protocols pim disable-packet-register
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface lo0.56
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface ae3.55
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.2056
set routing-instances VRF-56 route-distinguisher device-loopback-unit-0-address:56
set routing-instances VRF-56 vrf-target target:100:56
Then in the VRF instance configuration on each of the leaf devices, add the IRB interfaces only for
the revenue VLANs the device hosts:
SL-1 and SL-2—irb.142 through irb.144:
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.142
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.143
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.144
SL-3—irb.143 through irb.146:
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.143
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.144
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.145
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.146
SL-4 and SL-5—irb.145 through irb.148:
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.145
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.146
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.147
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.148
SL-6—irb.141 through irb.148:
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.141
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.142
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.143
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.144
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.145
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.146

706
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.147
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.148
BL-1 and BL-2—irb.147 and irb.148:
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.147
set routing-instances VRF-56 interface irb.148
Verify Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM
Verify enhanced OISM operation for use case #3, in which the internal source is behind SL-6 sending
IPv6 multicast flows for inter-VLAN multicast traffic with MLDv2—SSM. SL-1 through SL-5, BL-1, and
BL-2 are internal receivers. See the topology in Figure 98 on page 694, and the configuration in
"Configure Use Case #3: Internal Source and Receivers with MLDv2—SSM" on page 696.
Verification for this use case is similar to the verification in use case #1 but with an IPv6 source address
and IPv6 multicast traffic. We include verification commands here on SL-6 as the OISM leaf device
sending the source traffic, and on SL-1 and SL-2 as the OISM leaf devices receiving the traffic. On the
other receiving devices, based on the revenue VLANs they host, you'll see output similar to what we
include here for SL-1 and SL-2.
1. Run the show vlans command for the revenue VLANs and the SBD to see the VTEPs between the leaf
devices.
For example, on SL-6, you see the following:
• For VLAN-141—No VTEPS. SL-6 doesn't need any VTEPs to other OISM leaf devices for the
source VLAN because:
• This use case is for inter-VLAN traffic only, so no other leaf devices host the source VLAN.
• SL-6 has no multihoming peer leaf devices , so SL-6 doesn't need to send any multicast flows
to a multihoming peer on the source VLAN.
• For VLAN-142—2 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-142 (SL-1 and SL-2)
• For VLAN-143—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-143 (SL-1, SL-2, and SL-3)
• For VLAN-144—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-144 (SL-1, SL-2, and SL-3)
• For VLAN-145—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-145 (SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5)
• For VLAN-146—3 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-146 (SL-3, SL-4, and SL-5)

707
• For VLAN-147—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-147 (SL-4, SL-5, BL-1, and BL-2)
• For VLAN-148—4 VTEPs for the leaf devices that host VLAN-148 (SL-4, SL-5, BL-1, and BL-2)
SL-6:
user@SL-6> show vlans 141
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-141 141
ae3.0*
user@SL-6> show vlans 142
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-142 142
ae3.0*
esi.32245*
vtep-133.32803*
vtep-133.32806*
ruser@SL-6> show vlans 143
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-143 143
ae3.0*
esi.32245*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32803*
vtep-133.32806*
user@SL-6> show vlans 144
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-144 144
ae3.0*
esi.32245*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32803*
vtep-133.32806*
user@SL-6> show vlans 145
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-145 145
ae3.0*

708
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32807*
user@SL-6> show vlans 146
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-146 146
ae3.0*
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32807*
user@SL-6> show vlans 147
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-147 147
ae3.0*
esi.42632*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32807*
vtep-133.32808*
user@SL-6> show vlans 148
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-148 148
ae3.0*
esi.42632*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32807*
vtep-133.32808*
SL-2 (SL-1 and SL-2 host only VLAN-142, VLAN-143, and VLAN-144):
user@SL-2> show vlans 141
user@SL-2> show vlans 142
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces

709
MACVRF-1 VLAN-142 142
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
esi.18026*
vtep-5.32773*
vtep-5.32774*
user@SL-2> show vlans 143
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-143 143
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
esi.18026*
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32773*
vtep-5.32774*
user@SL-2> show vlans 144
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-144 144
ae3.0*
ae5.0*
esi.18026*
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32773*
vtep-5.32774*
user@SL-2> show vlans 145
user@SL-2> show vlans 146
user@SL-2> show vlans 147
user@SL-2> show vlans 148
2. Run the show vlans command for the SBD (VLAN-2056) on each leaf device to see the SBD VTEPs
between the leaf devices.
You should see VTEPs to each of the other leaf devices (seven VTEPs in this case).

710
SL-6:
user@SL-6> show vlans 2056
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-2056 2056
vtep-133.32802*
vtep-133.32803*
vtep-133.32804*
vtep-133.32805*
vtep-133.32806*
vtep-133.32807*
vtep-133.32808*
SL-2 (output is similar for SL-1):
user@SL-2> show vlans 2056
Routing instance VLAN name Tag Interfaces
MACVRF-1 VLAN-2056 2056
vtep-5.32769*
vtep-5.32770*
vtep-5.32771*
vtep-5.32772*
vtep-5.32773*
vtep-5.32774*
vtep-5.32775*
3. Run the show interfaces irb.unit# terse command on each of the leaf devices to verify the revenue
VLAN IRB interfaces are up, and the SBD IRB interface is up.
Table 27 on page 697 lists the addresses of the IRB interfaces in this use case.
SL-6 (output is similar on other OISM leaf devices for the SBD and the revenue VLANs they host):
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 141
irb.141 up up inet 10.0.141.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 142
irb.142 up up inet 10.0.142.248/24

711
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 143
irb.143 up up inet 10.0.143.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 144
irb.144 up up inet 10.0.144.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 145
irb.145 up up inet 10.0.145.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 146
irb.146 up up inet 10.0.146.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 147
irb.147 up up inet 10.0.147.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 148
irb.148 up up inet 10.0.148.248/24
user@SL-6> show interfaces terse | grep 2056
irb.2056 up up inet 10.20.56.248/24
4. Run the show ospf3 neighbor command for the VRF instance in this use case, VRF-56, on each leaf
device.
The output shows the OSPFv3 neighbors, where the neighbor ID is the neighbor device's logical
loopback address for the VRF (lo0.56). The Neighbor-address is the automatically-assigned IPv6 link
local address.
SL-6:
user@SL-6> show ospf3 neighbor instance VRF-56
ID Interface State Pri Dead
10.3.2.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 35
Neighbor-address fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80
10.1.2.56 irb.2056 Full 128 32
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:8a2:c9dd
10.3.1.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 30
Neighbor-address fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980
10.4.3.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 39
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:876:f630
10.7.4.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 39
Neighbor-address fe80::9a49:2508:883:f49a

712
10.7.5.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 39
Neighbor-address fe80::d699:6c08:87a:7ef7
SL-1:
user@SL-1> show ospf3 neighbor instance VRF-56
ID Interface State Pri Dead
10.3.2.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 30
Neighbor-address fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80
10.1.2.56 irb.2056 Full 128 36
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:8a2:c9dd
10.7.5.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 33
Neighbor-address fe80::d699:6c08:87a:7ef7
10.8.6.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 39
Neighbor-address fe80::d699:6c08:8cc:a8e
10.7.4.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 39
Neighbor-address fe80::9a49:2508:883:f49a
10.4.3.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 34
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:876:f630
SL-2:
user@SL-2> show ospf3 neighbor instance VRF-56
ID Interface State Pri Dead
10.7.4.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 31
Neighbor-address fe80::9a49:2508:883:f49a
10.8.6.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 38
Neighbor-address fe80::d699:6c08:8cc:a8e
10.4.3.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 37
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:876:f630
10.3.1.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 35
Neighbor-address fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980
10.1.2.56 irb.2056 Full 128 39
Neighbor-address fe80::8a30:3708:8a2:c9dd
10.7.5.56 irb.2056 2Way 0 35
Neighbor-address fe80::d699:6c08:87a:7ef7

713
5. Run the show pim join extensive instance VRF-56 command on the leaf devices to see the joined IPv6
multicast groups, IPv6 source address, upstream neighbors, and downstream neighbors. For more
details on how enhanced OISM east-west traffic flow works, see How Enhanced OISM Works.
We show output from this command for IPv6 multicast traffic on SL-6 as the source leaf device, and
SL-2 as a receiving leaf device. Output is similar on the other receiving leaf devices for the VLANs
they host. Note the following in the output:
• Group—We use multicast groups ff0e::db8:0:1 through ff0e::db8:0:3 for inter-VLAN (L3 routing)
traffic. We truncate the output after the first two multicast groups; the output for the last group is
similar.
• Source—The MLDv2 SSM multicast source is behind SL-6 with source address
2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c.
• Upstream Interface, Downstream neighbors—The source VLAN is VLAN-141, but in this case
(unlike use case #1), because SL-6 has no multihoming peer leaf devices, the upstream interface is
the SBD IRB interface, irb.2056. With enhanced OISM, SL-6 routes all multicast traffic to the
other leaf devices on the SBD, and the receiving leaf devices receive the traffic on the SBD. Then
the receiving leaf devices route the traffic from the SBD to the destination VLANs.
SL-6 in the source role:
user@SL-6> show pim join extensive instance VRF-56
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.141
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:40:33
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::d699:6c08:8cc:a8e State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:40:33 Time since last Join: 00:40:33
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1

714
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.141
Upstream neighbor: Direct
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:40:33
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::d699:6c08:8cc:a8e State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:40:33 Time since last Join: 00:40:33
Number of downstream interfaces: 1
Number of downstream neighbors: 1
...
SL-1 in the receiver role (SL-1 and SL-2 share an ESI and host VLANs 142 through 144; SL-2 is the
designated forwarder [DF] for the ESI):
user@SL-1> show pim join extensive instance VRF-56
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2056
Upstream neighbor: fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 6d 04:40:25
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.142
fe80::8243:3f01:bae2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:25 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.143

715
fe80::8243:3f01:bbe2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:17 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.144
fe80::8243:3f01:bce2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:21 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 03:41:58 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2056
Upstream neighbor: fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 6d 04:40:25
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.142
fe80::8243:3f01:bae2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:25 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.143
fe80::8243:3f01:bbe2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:17 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.144
fe80::8243:3f01:bce2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 04:40:21 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:4980 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 6d 03:41:58 Time since last Join: 5d 06:15:17
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
...

716
SL-2 in the receiver role (SL-1 and SL-2 share an ESI and host VLANs 142 through 144; SL-2 is the
designated forwarder [DF] for the ESI):
user@SL-2> show pim join extensive instance VRF-56
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Instance: PIM.VRF-56 Family: INET6
R = Rendezvous Point Tree, S = Sparse, W = Wildcard
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2056
Upstream neighbor: fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:11:38
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:29
Interface: irb.142
fe80::8243:3f01:bae2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Interface: irb.143
fe80::8243:3f01:bbe2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Interface: irb.144
fe80::8243:3f01:bce2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Flags: sparse,spt
Upstream interface: irb.2056
Upstream neighbor: fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80
Upstream state: Local Source, Local RP
Keepalive timeout:
Uptime: 00:11:38

717
Downstream neighbors:
Interface: irb.2056
fe80::8243:3f08:8e2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:29
Interface: irb.142
fe80::8243:3f01:bae2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Interface: irb.143
fe80::8243:3f01:bbe2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Interface: irb.144
fe80::8243:3f01:bce2:5d80 State: Join Flags: S Timeout: Infinity
Uptime: 00:11:38 Time since last Join: 00:11:38
Number of downstream interfaces: 4
Number of downstream neighbors: 4
...
6. On each device, use the show mld snooping membership vlan vlan-name virtual-switch MACVRF-1 command to
verify the multicast (S,G) source and group information learned with MLD snooping on the device for
the hosted VLANs.
For example, on SL-2 as a receiving leaf device:
user@SL-2> show mld snooping membership vlan VLAN-142 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-142
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 0
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 191
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:2
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Group mode: Include

718
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 191
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:2
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 191
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:2
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
user@SL-2> show mld snooping membership vlan VLAN-143 virtual-switch MACVRF-1
Instance: MACVRF-1
Vlan: VLAN-143
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae3.0, Groups: 3
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 254
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 254
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 254
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Learning-Domain: default
Interface: ae5.0, Groups: 3
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 193

719
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 193
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3
Group mode: Include
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c
Source timeout: 193
Last reported by: fe80::11:0:1ba:3
Group timeout: 0 Type: Dynamic
...
7. Run the show multicast snooping route source-prefix 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c instance VRF-56 extensive command
on the leaf devices to check for the expected routes in the multicast snooping route table with the
outgoing interface for the IPv6 multicast (S,G) traffic in this use case.
We include the output on SL-1 and SL-2 as receiving leaf devices. The output here shows that SL-1
and SL-2 receive the traffic on the SBD for the subscribed (S,G) entries and route the traffic toward
the receivers on the destination VLANs they host.
SL-1 (SL-1 and SL-2 host VLANs 142 through 144):
user@SL-1> show multicast snooping route source-prefix 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c instance MACVRF-1
Nexthop Bulking: OFF
Family: INET6
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:

720
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0

721
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0
SL-2 (SL-1 and SL-2 host VLANs 142 through 144, and SL-2 has an additional single-homed receiver
on interface ae5 to TOR-7):
user@SL-1> show multicast snooping route source-prefix 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c instance
MACVRF-1
Nexthop Bulking: OFF
Family: INET6
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128

722
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-2056
Downstream interface list:
evpn-core-nh
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-142
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-143
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:1/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128

723
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:2/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Group: ff0e::db8:0:3/128
Source: 2001:db8::10:0:8d:0c/128
Vlan: VLAN-144
Downstream interface list:
ae3.0 ae5.0
Configure VMTO
This section describes how to configure virtual machine traffic optimization (VMTO). For overview
information about VMTO, see Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization for EVPN section in "Data
Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
To enable VMTO for EVPN:
• Enable VMTO on the spine:
set routing-instances VRF-1 protocols evpn remote-ip-host-routes
To verify that VMTO is working:
• Display the routing table.
host@spine> show route table VRF-1.inet.0 protocol evpn
VRF-1.inet.0: 45 destinations, 45 routes (45 active, 0 holddown, 0 hidden)
+ = Active Route, - = Last Active, * = Both

724
10.0.37.1/32 *[EVPN/7] 1d 21:44:43
> via irb.37
10.0.37.2/32 *[EVPN/7] 1d 15:26:27
VMTO — Release History
Table 28 on page 724 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within
this reference design.
Table 28: VMTO Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Ingress Virtual Machine Traffic Optimization
DHCP Relay Design and Implementation
IN THIS SECTION
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Same Leaf Device | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and Connected to Different Leaf
Devices | 726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs | 727

725
DHCP Relay — Release History | 729
For an overview of the DHCP Relay implementation in this design, see the DHCP Relay section in "Data
Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
DHCP Relay was validated on centrally-routed bridging overlays (see "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay
Design and Implementation" on page 172) in use cases like those described below. DHCP Relay has also
been validated with edge-routed bridging overlays (see "Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Design and
Implementation" on page 236) starting in Junos OS Releases 18.4R2-S5 and 19.1R1. You can refer to
Configure a DHCP Relay in EVPN-VXLAN Fabric Architecture for a network configuration example of a
DHCP Relay use case with an edge-routed bridging overlay.
Figure 99 on page 725 provides a sample DHCP server and client placement in this design.
Figure 99: DHCP Server and Client Setup
This section covers the following DHCP Relay scenarios:

726
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and
Connected to Same Leaf Device
Figure 100 on page 726 shows how DHCP traffic might traverse the overlay network when the DHCP
client and server connect to access interfaces on the same leaf device and are in the same VLAN.
Figure 100: DHCP Relay—Same Leaf Device and Same VLAN
DHCP traffic is handled like any other intra-VLAN traffic in this scenario. It could also have been passed
in VNI_10000 on leaf device 10 or 11. No additional configuration of the leaf or spine devices is required to
support this traffic exchange.
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Same VLAN and
Connected to Different Leaf Devices
Figure 101 on page 727 shows how DHCP traffic might be forwarded when the DHCP client and
server connect to access interfaces on non-connected leaf devices that have interfaces in the same
VLAN.

727
Figure 101: DHCP Relay—Different Leaf Device and Same VLAN
In this scenario, the DHCP traffic remains in VNI_10000 and is passed over the topology using a VXLAN
tunnel. No additional configuration of the leaf or spine devices is required to support this traffic
exchange.
Enabling DHCP Relay: DHCP Client and Server in Different VLANs
Figure 102 on page 728 shows how DHCP traffic is forwarded when the DHCP client and server
connect to access interfaces in different VLANs.

728
Figure 102: DHCP Relay—Different VLANs
When the DHCP client and server are in different VNI, DHCP traffic is forwarded to a spine device. The
DHCP traffic is forwarded between VNIs via the IRB interfaces on the spine device and then passed to
the destination DHCP client or server.
The IRB interfaces on the spine devices must be configured to support DHCP Relay.
To prepare the network to support DHCP relay when the DHCP client and server are in different
VLANs:
1. Ensure the centrally-routed bridging overlay is configured. See "Centrally-Routed Bridging Overlay
Design and Implementation" on page 172.
2. Enable DHCP relay in a routing instance with the forward only option. The forward only option
ensures that DHCP packets are forwarded on the switch but that no DHCP server client bindings are
created.
Spine Device:
set routing-instances VRF_1 forwarding-options dhcp-relay forward-only
3. Create and activate the DHCP relay server group. The DHCP relay server group include one or more
DHCP servers—individually identified by IP address—and a user-defined name for the servers.

729
In this reference design, one DHCP server—10.1.0.211—is assigned into a DHCP server group named
DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1.
Spine Device:
set routing-instances VRF_1 forwarding-options dhcp-relay server-group DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1
10.1.0.211
set routing-instances VRF_1 forwarding-options dhcp-relay active-server-group
DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1
4. Associate the server group with the IRB interfaces on the spine devices.
In this topology, irb.100 and irb.200 relay DHCP traffic between VNI_10000 and VNI_20000.
Spine Devices:
set routing-instances VRF_1 forwarding-options dhcp-relay group RELAY_DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1
interface irb.100
set routing-instances VRF_1 forwarding-options dhcp-relay group RELAY_DHCP_SERVER_GROUP_1
interface irb.200
5. Confirm that the DHCP hosts received an IP address by reviewing the ARP table on the spine device.
user@spine-1> show arp no-resolve
MAC Address Address Interface Flags
0e:ad:11:00:00:0d 10.1.0.214 irb.100 [.local..260] none
0e:ad:11:00:00:0e 10.1.0.215 irb.100 [.local..260] none
0e:ad:11:00:00:10 10.1.1.219 irb.200 [.local..260] none
0e:ad:11:00:00:0f 10.1.1.220 irb.200 [.local..260] none
DHCP Relay — Release History
Table 29 on page 730 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within
this reference design.

730
Table 29: DHCP Relay Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train and serve as spine devices also support all features documented in this
section.
We have not validated DHCP Relay between VLANs in edge-routed bridging overlays for this
reference design.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 QFX5110 switches running Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in the same release train
support all features documented in this section.
17.3R3-S1 All spine devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 17.3R3-S1 and later
releases in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
We have not validated DHCP Relay between VLANs in edge-routed bridging overlays for this
reference design.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
Configuring DHCP and BOOTP Relay
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the
Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay
IN THIS SECTION
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay | 731
Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay — Release History | 733

731
Verifying Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for the Edge-Routed Bridging
Overlay
Proxy ARP and ARP suppression are enabled by default on all QFX Series switches that can act as leaf
devices in an edge-routed bridging overlay. (For a list of these switches, see Table 2 on page 52.) As a
result, there is no configuration needed to enable these features.
NOTE: By default, the Junos OS enables proxy ARP and ARP suppression, and proxy
NDP and NDP suppression. The Junos OS includes the no-arp-suppression statement to
turn off suppressing ARP and NDP packets, but starting in Junos OS Release 19.1R1,
that statement is hidden in the Junos CLI. We usually recommend using the default
settings.
To verify proxy ARP is working on supported devices and ARP suppression prevents other leaf devices
from seeing the ARP requests, perform the following:
1. Select a remote end system entry to verify that proxy ARP is enabled on a supported leaf device. In
this example, Leaf 10 is a QFX10002 switch.
user@leaf-10> show arp no-resolve expiration-time | match 10.1.4.201
02:0c:10:04:02:01 10.1.4.201 irb.500 [.local..9] none 1157
2. Verify that the entry was learned from a remote leaf device. In this case, the ARP entry was learned
from Leaf 4 and 5.
user@leaf-10> show evpn database mac-address 02:0c:10:04:02:01 extensive
Instance: default-switch
VN Identifier: 50000, MAC address:: 02:0c:10:04:02:01
Source: 00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01, Rank: 1, Status: Active
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4 # Leaf 4
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5 # Leaf 5
Timestamp: Sep 11 00:37:32 (0x59b63d3c)
State: <Remote-To-Local-Adv-Done>
IP address: 10.1.4.201
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5
IP address: 2001:db8::10:1:4:201
Flags: <Proxy>
Remote origin: 192.168.1.4

732
Remote origin: 192.168.1.5 History db:
Time Event
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Active ESI unchanged (00:00:00:00:00:00:51:10:00:01)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x0)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local state present)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x0)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Advertisement route cannot be created (no local source present)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 IP host route cannot be created (No remote host route for non-
MPLS instance)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Updating output state (change flags 0x4000 <IP-Peer-Added>)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Creating MAC+IP advertisement route for proxy
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 IP host route cannot be created (No remote host route for non-
MPLS instance)
Sep 11 00:37:33 2017 Clearing change flags <IP-Peer-Added>
3. Send an ARP Request and verify that the ARP reply is generated.
user@leaf-10> monitor traffic interface irb no-resolve
verbose output suppressed, use <detail> or <extensive> for full protocol decode
Address resolution is OFF.
Listening on irb, capture size 96 bytes
00:43:01.881508 In arp who-has 10.1.4.201 tell 10.1.4.202
00:43:01.881569 Out arp reply 10.1.4.201 is-at 02:0c:10:04:02:01
00:43:02.081404 In arp who-has 10.1.4.201 tell 10.1.4.202
## The next entry is the MAC address from the operational
mode command issued in Step 2.
00:43:02.081466 Out arp reply 10.1.4.201 is-at 02:0c:10:04:02:01
4. Verify that ARP is suppressed in the remote leaf device. Note: There is no ARP request connecting
Leaf 4 to any other leaf in the segment.
user@leaf-4> monitor traffic interface irb no-resolve
verbose output suppressed, use <detail> or <extensive> for full protocol decode
Address resolution is OFF.
Listening on irb, capture size 96 bytes
^C

733
0 packets received by filter
0 packets dropped by kernel
Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression for an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay —
Release History
Table 30 on page 733 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within
this reference design.
Table 30: Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression in an Edge-Routed Bridging Overlay Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 QFX10002-60C and QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases
in the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
19.1R1 The no-arp-suppression statement is hidden in the CLI starting in Junos OS Release 19.1R1, but you
can configure it in some use cases where we require you to turn off ARP suppression.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
EVPN Proxy ARP and ARP Suppression, and Proxy NDP and NDP Suppression

734
Configuring Layer 2 Port Security Features on
Ethernet-Connected End Systems
IN THIS SECTION
Configuring Storm Control | 734
Verifying Storm Control | 735
Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering | 735
Verifying MAC Filtering | 738
Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring | 738
Verifying Port Mirroring | 739
Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History | 739
This section shows how to configure the following Layer 2 port security features. For overview
information about these features, see "Layer 2 Port Security Features on Ethernet-Connected End
Systems" on page 45 in "Data Center Fabric Blueprint Architecture Components" on page 9.
Configuring Storm Control
In this sample configuration, storm control rate limits BUM traffic on server-facing aggregated Ethernet
interfaces. If the amount of BUM traffic exceeds 6% of the available bandwidth on the interface, storm
control drops it to prevent broadcast storms.
To enable storm control:
1. Create a storm control profile and specify the percentage of bandwidth available to BUM traffic.
set forwarding-options storm-control-profiles STORM-CONTROL all bandwidth-percentage 6

735
2. Apply the storm control profile to an ingress Layer 2 interface. After you apply the profile to an
interface, the interface resides in the default switch interface.
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching storm-control STORM-CONTROL
Verifying Storm Control
To verify storm control activity, filter system log messages related to storm control:
user@leaf10> show log messages | match storm
Sep 27 11:35:34 leaf1-qfx5100 l2ald[1923]: L2ALD_ST_CTL_IN_EFFECT: ae11.0: storm control in
effect on the port
Configuring Port Security Using MAC Filtering
To configure MAC filtering, you create firewall filters in which you specify one or more of the supported
match conditions. See MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring Support in an EVPN-VXLAN
Environment for a list of match conditions supported on QFX5110 switches and QFX10000 switches.
You then apply the firewall filter to a Layer 2 interface.
To configure MAC filtering:
1. Create a firewall filter for an ingress interface.
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ from source-mac-address
be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ from destination-mac-
address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from source-mac-
address be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ from ether-type arp
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ from user-vlan-id 10
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term ARP-REQ then count ARP-REQ-CNT
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from source-mac-
address be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48

736
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from destination-
mac-address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from ether-type
ipv4
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from user-vlan-id
10
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V4-BROADCAST then count V4-
BROADCAST-CNT-IN
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from source-mac-
address be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from destination-
mac-address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from ether-type
ipv6
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from user-vlan-id
10
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term V6-BROADCAST then count V6-
BROADCAST-CNT-IN
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from source-mac-
address be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from destination-mac-
address 00:00:5e:00:00:04/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from source-port 1020
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from destination-port
1024
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from ip-source-
address 10.0.10.201/32
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from ip-destination-
address 10.0.12.201/32
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from ip-protocol tcp
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 from user-vlan-id 10
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term PKT_IN_V4 then count V4-PKT-CNT-
IN-TCP-FLAG-0x90
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term DEF then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-INGRESS term DEF then count DEF_CNT_IN
2. Apply the firewall filter to the ingress of an access interface / Layer 2 interface.
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching filter input L2-INGRESS

737
3. Create a firewall filter for an egress interface.
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP from source-mac-address
00:00:5e:00:00:04/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP from destination-mac-
address be:ef:a2:01:00:0a/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP from ether-type arp
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP from user-vlan-id 10
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term ARP-REP then count ARP-REP-CNT
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from source-mac-
address be:ef:a4:03:00:0c/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from destination-
mac-address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from ether-type ipv4
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST from user-vlan-id 12
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V4-BROADCAST then count V4-
BROADCAST-CNT-OUT
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from source-mac-
address be:ef:a4:03:00:0c/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from destination-
mac-address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff/48
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from ether-type ipv6
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST from user-vlan-id 12
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term V6-BROADCAST then count V6-
BROADCAST-CNT-OUT
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term DEF then accept
set firewall family ethernet-switching filter L2-EGRESS term DEF then count DEF_CNT_OUT
4. Apply the firewall filter to the egress interface.
set interfaces ae11 unit 0 family ethernet-switching filter output L2-EGRESS

738
Verifying MAC Filtering
1. Verify MAC filtering on the ingress interface.
user@leaf10> show firewall filter L2-INGRESS
Filter: L2-INGRESS
Counters:
Name Bytes Packets
ARP-REQ-CNT 640 10
DEF_CNT_IN 44038137 79032
V4-BROADCAST-CNT-IN 0 0
V4-PKT-CNT-IN-TCP 7418880 57960
V6-BROADCAST-CNT-IN 5370880 41960
2. Verify MAC filtering on the egress interface.
user@leaf10> show firewall filter L2-EGRESS
Filter: L2-EGRESS
Counters:
Name Bytes Packets
ARP-REP-CNT 68 1
DEF_CNT_OUT 17365964 146535
V4-BROADCAST-CNT-OUT 4171264 32588
V6-BROADCAST-CNT-OUT 3147264 24588
Configuring Analyzer-Based Port Mirroring
This section shows how to mirror ingress traffic on an underlay interface to another physical port.
The source and destination ports for mirrored traffic are on the same leaf or same spine.
1. Configure an analyzer to mirror ingress traffic on interface ae1.0.
set forwarding-options analyzer A1 input ingress interface ae1.0

739
2. Configure the destination interface for the mirrored packets.
set forwarding-options analyzer A1 output interface et-0/0/71.0
3. Configure the interface that connects to another switch (the uplink interface) to trunk mode and
associate it with the appropriate VLAN.
set interfaces et-0/0/71 unit 0 family ethernet-switching interface-mode trunk
set interfaces et-0/0/71 unit 0 family ethernet-switching vlan members all
Verifying Port Mirroring
• To verify port mirroring:
host> show forwarding-options analyze
r
Analyzer name : A1
Mirror rate : 1
Maximum packet length : 0
State : up
ingress monitored interfaces : ae1.0
Output interface : et-0/0/71.0
Layer 2 Port Security Features — Release History
Table 31 on page 740 provides a history of all of the features in this section and their support within
this reference design.

740
Table 31: Layer 2 Port Security Release History
Release Description
19.1R2 • QFX5120-32C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same release
train support MAC filtering, storm control, and port mirroring and analyzing.
• QFX10002-60C switches running Junos OS Release 19.1R2 and later releases in the same
release train support MAC filtering. These switches do not support storm control, and port
mirroring and analyzing.
18.4R2 QFX5120-48Y switches running Junos OS Release 18.4R2 and later releases in the same release
train support all features documented in this section.
18.1R3-S3 All devices in the reference design that support Junos OS Release 18.1R3-S3 and later releases in
the same release train also support all features documented in this section.
RELATED DOCUMENTATION
MAC Filtering, Storm Control, and Port Mirroring Support in an EVPN-VXLAN Environment
Remote Port Mirroring for EVPN-VXLAN Fabrics
